Y. Luo, J. Yao, D. Yang, L. Zhao and R. Jin, "Transient Interaction Mechanism Analysis and Stability Control of Multi-Paralleled DFIG-Based WTs During Asymmetrical Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 434-451, Jan. 2025, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2024.3462789.
Abstract: In this article, from the perspective of DC-link voltage (DCV) control, the transient interaction mechanism of multi-paralleled doubly fed induction generator (DFIG)-based wind turbines (WTs) is investigated during asymmetrical grid faults. Firstly, considering the coupling characteristics of positive and negative sequence (PNS) components and the interaction characteristics between the rotor side converter (RSC) and grid side converter (GSC), a large-signal nonlinear model of multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs in DC-link voltage control time-scale is obtained. Furthermore, by using the energy function method, the dynamic interaction mechanism of multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs is analyzed. The influence of different parameters on the transient characteristics of DC-link voltage is analyzed by using phase trajectory diagram. The dominant factors affecting the transient stability of the WTs and stability level of DC-link voltage are obtained. In addition, considering the interaction among WTs, the dynamic interaction between RSC and GSC, as well as the requirement of grid codes, a transient stability optimization strategy during asymmetrical grid faults is proposed to improve the transient stability level of the DC-link voltage and the transient stability of multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs. Finally, simulation and experimental results validate the correctness of theoretical analysis and the effectiveness of the proposed strategy.
keywords: {Transient analysis;Power system stability;Doubly fed induction generators;Stability criteria;Voltage control;Circuit stability;Circuit faults;Transient interaction mechanism;DC-link voltage control time-scale;multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs;asymmetrical grid faults;transient stability optimization strategy},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10681307&isnumber=10805483


H. -J. Wu and Y. -M. Chen, "A Modified Park Transformation Algorithm for Phase-Locked Loop Applications in Unbalanced Three-Phase Systems," 2024 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2024, pp. 3888-3894, doi: 10.1109/ECCE55643.2024.10861681.Abstract: This paper proposes a novel modified Park transformation (MPT) algorithm for phase-locked loop (PLL) applications in unbalanced three-phase systems. Unlike the conventional Park transformation, the proposed MPT algorithm directly incorporates unbalanced characteristics into its transformation matrix, thereby streamlining control strategies without requiring supplementary filtering. The effectiveness of the proposed MPT is verified through rigorous mathematical derivations, comparative simulations, and practical implementations using a digital signal processor (DSP). The results demonstrate that the MPT algorithm significantly improves the stability and accuracy of PLL systems under unbalanced conditions, providing an effective solution for handling phase unbalances in various power systems. Theoretical derivations and practical results, including crucial waveform comparisons, confirm the superior performance of the MPT algorithm and establish a robust framework for future research and applications. keywords: {Technological innovation;Accuracy;Heuristic algorithms;Digital signal processors;Signal processing algorithms;Adaptive algorithms;Power system stability;Stability analysis;Phase locked loops;Power harmonic filters;Park/Clarke transformation;unbalanced three-phase system;phase-locked loop (PLL)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10861681&isnumber=10860272

X. Liang, H. Zhang, G. Kuang, W. Xie, Z. Liu and Q. Guo, "A New Three+Phase Unbalanced Optimal Control Strategy of Distribution Network Based on Function Reuse of Micro-Source Grid-Connected Converter," 2024 21st International Conference on Harmonics and Quality of Power (ICHQP), Chengdu, China, 2024, pp. 13-18, doi: 10.1109/ICHQP61174.2024.10768703.Abstract: Considering the quality of the output voltage, the distributed power supply needs to have a certain power quality control ability when the unbalanced fault occurs. In response to this requirement, this paper proposes a parallel system. An inverter is placed at the common coupling point of the main circuit and the power grid as an external device for fault ride-through when a serious fault drop. During normal operation, the parallel inverter does not operate, and the main circuit inverter outputs active power. Under asymmetric fault conditions, the parallel inverter injects reactive power to the common coupling point to limit AC current and grid voltage support. Firstly, the power model of the inverter under asymmetric conditions is analyzed in the first part. Then, the power quality management and capacity optimization strategy of the parallel system are described. Finally, the waveform results show the correctness and superiority of the capacity optimization strategy. keywords: {Couplings;Reactive power;Power quality;Power system stability;Power system harmonics;Inverters;Power grids;Circuit faults;Voltage control;Optimization;Parallel system;Unbalanced fault crossing;Capacity optimization;Voltage drop;Distributed power supply},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10768703&isnumber=10768685

H. He et al., "Coordinated Stability Control of Photovoltaic Plants Using Sliding Mode Algorithm," 2024 4th International Conference on Energy Engineering and Power Systems (EEPS), Hangzhou, China, 2024, pp. 330-334, doi: 10.1109/EEPS63402.2024.10804329.Abstract: The output of photovoltaic power stations is affected by weather and environment, and is intermittent and volatile. When connected to the grid on a large scale, its own dynamic performance will affect the power grid and bring challenges to the stable operation of the power grid. In this regard, this paper proposes a coordinated control strategy based on the sliding mode algorithm and studies the dynamic performance of the photovoltaic power station itself. First, a transient model of the photovoltaic power station is established. Based on this model, a coordinated control strategy for the photovoltaic power station based on the sliding mode algorithm is designed, and simulation comparison and analysis are carried out in combination with the MATLAB/Simulink platform. The experimental results show that the coordinated control of photovoltaic power stations based on the sliding mode algorithm can better stabilize the DC bus voltage than the traditional algorithm, and has higher robustness and lower oscillation. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Heuristic algorithms;Power system dynamics;Power system stability;Power grids;Mathematical models;Stability analysis;Voltage control;Transient analysis;Oscillators;photovoltaic power plant;sliding mode control;transient model},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10804329&isnumber=10804281

V. R. Motakatla, H. Padullaparti and I. Mendoza, "Adaptive Negative Sequence Virtual Impedance-based Voltage Unbalance Compensation in Microgrids," 2024 IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting (PESGM), Seattle, WA, USA, 2024, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/PESGM51994.2024.10688661.Abstract: This paper addresses the challenges in compensating for unbalanced voltages in microgrids (MGs) dominated by inverter-based resources (IBRs). In the grid-connected mode of IBR, the grid can supply a negative sequence current to compensate for unbalanced voltages. In the absence of grid support, unbalanced loads and feeder impedances inherent to practical MGs complicate the design of voltage compensation strategies because of dependency on the inverter control strategy and the effective impedance between the inverter and point of common coupling (PCC). To address this issue, we propose an adaptive negative sequence virtual impedance (A-NQVI) scheme for the MGs dominated by high penetration of IBRs. The proposed approach is an easy add-on to the conventional voltage and current control with positive sequence impedance, enabling the injection of generated power into the grid and the compensation of unbalanced voltages at the PCC. The proposed scheme uses local measurements to extract sequence components by making use of a second-order generalized integrator (SOGI) and synchronous reference frame and is based on proportional-integral (PI) controllers. The performance of the proposed control scheme is validated on a modified IEEE 13-bus system in addition to a simple system with two distributed generators. The application of distributed control to inverters is also tested. keywords: {Current control;Couplings;PI control;Current measurement;Decentralized control;Microgrids;Generators;Impedance;Voltage control;Inverter-based resource;Adaptive;microgrid;park transformation;second-order generalized integrator (SOGI);virtual impedance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10688661&isnumber=10688379

R. Zhang et al., "Protection and Power Smoothing of a DFIG/DC Microgrid Hybrid Power System With SMES-Based Unified Power Quality Conditioner," in IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity, vol. 34, no. 8, pp. 1-5, Nov. 2024, Art no. 5401005, doi: 10.1109/TASC.2024.3425322.
Abstract: This paper proposes a unified power quality conditioner (UPQC) based on superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES) for protection and power smoothing in DFIG/DC microgrid hybrid power system. The DC side of the UPQC is connected in parallel with the DC bus of the DC microgrid and maintains the stability of the DC bus voltage, while on the AC side, it is connected through series transformers to the DFIG terminal to act as a dynamic voltage restorer. For a case verification, a 0.8H/718A step-shaped superconducting coil (SC) is designed by finite element simulation using H-formulation to improve the critical current and economy of SMES. Finally, a dual control for regulating positive and negative sequence components of voltage signals is used in DFIG/DC microgrid hybrid power system. The simulation results show that it can effectively smooth the power of the hybrid power generation system, the key parameters of DFIG and DC microgrid can be well suppressed under fault conditions.
keywords: {Microgrids;Hybrid power systems;Doubly fed induction generators;Voltage control;Power generation;Protection;Mathematical models;DC microgrid;DFIG;HTS;SMES;UPQC},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10591371&isnumber=10525238


B. Long, C. Hu, Z. Chen, J. Hu and J. Rodríguez, "Transient Stability Analysis and Virtual Power Compensation of a Virtual Synchronous Generator Under Low-Voltage Fault," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 10, pp. 12803-12814, Oct. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3423445.
Abstract: Virtual synchronous generators (VSGs) demonstrate similar damping and inertia characteristics to traditional synchronous generators, thereby enhancing their ability to support grid voltage and frequency. However, VSGs face challenges related to overcurrent and power angle instability during low-voltage fault conditions. To enhance the low-voltage fault ride-through capability of VSGs, this article introduces a virtual power compensation (VPC) strategy combined with an enhanced current limiting method. First, the transient stability of VSGs with current limiting is analyzed to reveal its instability mechanism. Second, the operational mechanism of the proposed VPC strategy in enhancing transient stability is examined. By means of phase portraits, the effect of transient stability improvement by the VPC is described. Additionally, to facilitate the selection of control parameters, a detailed quantitative analysis has been conducted. Finally, hardware-in-the-loop experiments validate the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Limiting;Power system stability;Transient analysis;Synchronous generators;Stability criteria;Low voltage;Grid forming;Low-voltage faults;transient stability;virtual power compensation (VPC);virtual synchronous generator (VSGs)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10586795&isnumber=10659244


K. Zhou et al., "A Power Ripple Suppression Method for Grid-Forming Converter under Imbalanced Grids," 2024 IEEE 10th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC2024-ECCE Asia), Chengdu, China, 2024, pp. 2643-2647, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC-ECCEAsia60879.2024.10567994.Abstract: Grid-forming converter has been intensively discussed for the capability of active frequency and voltage magnitude regulation. However, due to the absence of closed-loop direct grid current tracking, it suffers from negative sequence grid voltage disturbances, causing significant double-frequency power oscillations. In this paper, a simple power ripple suppression method is proposed for voltage-controlled grid-forming converters, without using any sequence decomposition or complex signal processing. The proposed system consists of a double-frequency active power pulsation mitigation loop to produce an adjustment gain that couples with the instantaneous converter voltage signal, the fundamental component of this adjustment term is extracted and added to the reference voltage from traditional droop control loop. With only slight modifications, the active power pulsation can be effectively suppressed in various conditions. Extensive experimental results have obtained to validate the correctness of the proposed approach. keywords: {Asia;Signal processing;Frequency conversion;Control systems;Regulation;Power electronics;Voltage control;Grid-forming converter;imbalanced Grids;power ripple suppression},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10567994&isnumber=10567050

H. Ding et al., "Passivity-Based Nonsingular Terminal Sliding-Mode Control for LC-Filtered Current Source Converter," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 8, pp. 9367-9381, Aug. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3394949.
Abstract: It is a big challenge for current source converter (CSC) to ensure the desired tracking performance, robustness, and immunity simultaneously in the presence of resonance caused by the grid-side LC filter and slowly time-varying filter parameters or load disturbances. Aiming at this problem, combining the advantages of passivity-based control (PBC) and nonsingular terminal sliding mode control (NTSMC), a hybrid PBC-NTSMC method is proposed. Based on virtual damping injection and energy dissipation theory, the PBC is first designed for the inner loop followed by the construction of the Euler–Lagrange model. In this way, the resonance suppression is realized and the CSC system is proved to be passive. Furthermore, the NTSMC is combined with PBC to improve the dynamic response, reduce the chattering problem of traditional sliding mode control, and enhance the robustness of the system while maintaining passivity. In addition, the power references are modified to enable system to flexibly configure the control target depending on actual application requirements under nonideal grid. To further enhance the immunity, an ultralocal model predictive controller based on extended state observer disturbance estimation is designed for the outer loop. Finally, the simulation and experimental results verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Robustness;Damping;Predictive models;Resistors;Power system stability;Power harmonic filters;Perturbation methods;Current source converter (CSC);LC resonance;nonsingular terminal sliding mode control (NTSMC);passivity-based control (PBC);power reference},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10510503&isnumber=10566505


D. Wu et al., "Grid Integration of Offshore Wind Power: Standards, Control, Power Quality and Transmission," in IEEE Open Journal of Power Electronics, vol. 5, pp. 583-604, 2024, doi: 10.1109/OJPEL.2024.3390417.
Abstract: Offshore wind is expected to be a major player in the global efforts toward decarbonization, leading to exceptional changes in modern power systems. Understanding the impacts and capabilities of the relatively new and uniquely positioned assets in grids with high integration levels of inverter-based resources, however, is lacking, raising concerns about grid reliability, stability, power quality, and resilience, with the absence of updated grid codes to guide the massive deployment of offshore wind. To help fill the gap, this paper presents an overview of the state-of-the-art technologies of offshore wind power grid integration. First, the paper investigates the most current grid requirements for wind power plant integration, based on a harmonized European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO-E) framework and notable international standards, and it illuminates future directions. The paper discusses the wind turbine and wind power plant control strategies, and new control approaches, such as grid-forming control, are presented in detail. The paper reviews recent research on the ancillary services that offshore wind power plants can potentially provide, which, when harmonized, will not only comply with regulations but also improve the value of the asset. The paper explores topics of wind power plant harmonics, reviewing the latest standards in detail and outlining mitigation methods. The paper also presents stability analysis methods for wind power plants, with discussions centered on validity and computational efficiency. Finally, the paper discusses wind power plant transmission solutions, with a focus on high-voltage direct-current topologies and controls.
keywords: {Wind power generation;Codes;Europe;Standards;Power system stability;Frequency control;Industries;Offshore wind power;inverter-based resources;grid-forming inverter;inverter ancillary service;power quality;stability analysis},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10504957&isnumber=10366862


F. Wen, P. Acuna, J. Yang, Z. Yuan and A. M. Y. M. Ghias, "Low-Voltage Ride-Through Scheme for Distributed Generation Inverters Using a Modified Current Reference Strategy," 2024 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Bristol, United Kingdom, 2024, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/ICIT58233.2024.10540912.Abstract: The growing number of distributed generations (DGs) has shifted the power supply to be more flexible and reliable. Meanwhile, for the stability of the power grid, the increasing integration demands a robust fault ride-through (FRT) ability when the unbalanced sag occurs in the grid operation, namely low-voltage ride-through (LVRT). During an unbalanced sag, the oscillation in the active and reactive power, the distorted and unbalanced current are the main significant detriments. Several current reference strategies have been developed to mitigate these adverse effects. However, the standard approach prioritizes compensation for one objective entirely, typically the sag, at the expense of leaving another objective unaddressed i.e. constant powers, balanced current, or harmonic distortion. To accomplish the characteristics of different current reference strategies, this paper modifies the current reference to achieve two control variables. Besides, to accurately boost the voltage at the point of common coupling, the reactive power compensation reference is proposed according to the power transfer equation. A model predictive control (MPC) controller is designed to deliver a given power by making the current follow the reference. The simulation results show that the proposed LVRT scheme achieves at the PCC voltage a more accurate and larger boost and the modified current strategy can decouple the traditional strategies. keywords: {Reactive power;Low voltage;Upper bound;Power system stability;Mathematical models;Stability analysis;Distributed power generation;Distributed generations (DGs);low voltage ride-through (LVRT);model predictive control (MPC);voltage sag;inverter;LC filter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10540912&isnumber=10540608

Y. Feng, W. Huang, Z. Jin, Y. Li, Z. J. Shen and Z. Shuai, "Voltage Support Strategy for Improving Power Transfer Capability of Grid-Connected Converter Under Unbalanced Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 7, pp. 7863-7875, July 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3380626.
Abstract: Grid-connected converter should transmit power from distributed generation to the grid as much as possible, even under unbalanced conditions. However, under the necessary constraints of the point of common coupling (PCC) voltage support and current limitation, it is difficult for the converter to transmit more power to the grid. To fill this gap, this article provides a mechanism analysis of the power transfer considering the zero-sequence voltage influence. Moreover, a new control strategy is proposed to improve the power transfer capability under unbalanced conditions. It is found that the phase difference between the PCC voltage and the grid voltage in the positive- and negative-sequence network is a key factor affecting power transfer capability, while playing an important role in the accurate calculation of the PCC voltage amplitude. Based on the key factor, we propose a new control strategy to improve the power transfer capability of the grid-connected converter. The proposed strategy can flexibly control the phase difference and transfer more power to the grid under the premise of current limiting and voltage support. Finally, the proposed voltage support strategy is validated with an experimental study.
keywords: {Voltage control;Impedance;Distributed power generation;Low voltage;Power system stability;Power electronics;Codes;Grid-connected converter;power transfer;unbalanced conditions;voltage support},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10478201&isnumber=10534151


K. Liao, D. Zhou, Z. Shen and J. Zou, "A Dual-DC-Port Rectifier With Active Power Ripple Suppression Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 7481-7491, June 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3377352.
Abstract: The active power decoupling technique is an attractive solution to deal with dual-frequency power ripples in three-phase grid-connected rectifiers under unbalanced grid conditions. However, this technique typically employs extra components and introduces increased power losses. In view of this, this article proposed a dual-dc-port rectifier with active power ripple suppression, which enables direct power delivery among the ac grid and dc ports without additional components and intermediate power conversion. Besides, an equivalent two-level framework is put forward to decouple the controller design for this high-integrated topology. With the proposed equivalent two-level model, the controller design for the dual-dc-port rectifier can be simplified, where the grid current control is achieved by regulating the active vector, and power ripple suppression is realized by allocating the zero vector. Consequently, the proposed active power ripple suppression scheme simultaneously achieves sinusoidal grid currents on the ac side and constant dc output voltage on the dc side because the active power ripples on the ac side are all distributed into the extended power decoupling port on the dc side. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of the employed topology and the designed control scheme.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Avalanche photodiodes;Capacitors;Voltage control;Vectors;Topology;Current control;Dual-dc-port rectifier;high power density;power decoupling;power quality;second-order power ripples;unbalanced grid conditions},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10472688&isnumber=10505873


D. M. Pérez, L. H. Pardo, F. Aguilera and G. G. Oggier, "Analysis of a Mode Transition Strategy Between Grid-Connected and Islanded Operation of an Electrical Microgrid," 2024 Argentine Conference on Electronics (CAE), Bahía Blanca, Argentina, 2024, pp. 64-69, doi: 10.1109/CAE59785.2024.10487160.Abstract: This paper analyzes the performance of a control strategy for a hybrid electrical microgrid during the mode transition based on a master-slave configuration. The converters are controlled as current sources in grid-connected mode, and the master converter switches its control to a voltage source in islanded mode. The results obtained from simulations in MATLAB/Simulink demonstrate a smooth transition between the modes of operation, complying with international power quality standards. The effectiveness of the local fault detection technique is confirmed, ensuring a fast response time in detecting changes in the state of the power grid. Additionally, the behavior of the microgrid's voltage Vrms during the master converter control changes is analyzed, giving results within the limits established by Standard lEC 62040–3. keywords: {Fault detection;Simulation;Power quality;Microgrids;Control systems;Main-secondary;Time factors;microgrid;islanding;grid fault detection;synchronization;second order generalised integrator},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10487160&isnumber=10487112

Z. A. Alexakis and A. T. Alexandridis, "A Current-Limiting PI Control Scheme for Voltage Source Converters," 2024 IEEE 8th Energy Conference (ENERGYCON), Doha, Qatar, 2024, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ENERGYCON58629.2024.10488773.Abstract: In modern power systems, the good and safe operation of voltage source converters (VSCs) is of principal importance. The aim is twofold: to regulate the active and reactive power injected to the grid and simultaneously to protect the VSC from overcurrent situations usually occurred after some abnormal grid conditions. A novel solution to this open problem is provided in this paper. Specifically, we present a novel current-limiting control scheme that enables to accurately limit the RMS current value of the VSC, even under abrupt faults. The controllers are implemented in the well-known d-q synchronously rotating reference frame for a VSC that is connected to a stiff bus through an LC filter. The synchronization with the grid-bus is carried out by a robust synchronization unit (RSU), whereas a modified PQ controller that efficiently accommodates the nature of the RSU and the inner-loop control scheme is implemented. The proposed design is analyzed through large signal analysis; it is established that the system is locally-input to state stable (I-ISS). Also, asymptotic stability and convergence to the equilibrium, is proven, in the domain of attraction as it is determined by the limiting current controller operation. Finally, the studied system is tested under various simulation scenarios where in conventional situations large current values are normally expected. In our case, the current-limiting property is fully verified and a smooth response to equilibrium is observed. keywords: {Asymptotic stability;Inductance;Limiting;Power system stability;Stability analysis;Power conversion;Synchronization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10488773&isnumber=10488737

S. Pola, M. A. Azzouz and M. Mirhassani, "Synchronverters With Fault Ride-Through Capabilities for Reliable Microgrid Protection During Balanced and Unbalanced Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 1663-1676, July 2024, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2024.3365672.
Abstract: Synchronverters are inverters that provide damping and inertia, similar to synchronous generators. Like traditional inverters, synchronverters are adaptable to the microgrid's operation modes. However, synchronverters may generate oscillatory active and reactive powers during faults and produce phase currents with excessive magnitudes. Therefore, this paper develops two fault ride-through (FRT) strategies for synchronverters: average power control and enhanced power control. Both strategies aim to reduce power oscillations, limit current generation, and ensure compliance with grid codes during faults, regardless of the fault conditions and the grid's operation mode. Additionally, synchronverters with the proposed FRT strategies are incorporated into an optimal protection coordination (OPC) program for microgrid protection. The OPC program obtains the settings of time-current-voltage overcurrent relays (TIV-OCRs) and demonstrates the effect of the proposed FRT strategies on microgrid protection. The obtained settings are suitable for both the microgrid's grid-connected and islanded modes during balanced and unbalanced faults. Evaluation results demonstrate the capability of the proposed strategies to reduce power oscillations, limit current generation, and comply with grid codes. Furthermore, the OPC results reveal the most appropriate strategy to minimize TIV-OCRs' operating times in a coordinated manner, regardless of the fault type and microgrid operating mode.
keywords: {Microgrids;Low-pass filters;Passive filters;Oscillators;Reactive power;Power harmonic filters;Filtering theory;Synchronverter;instantaneous power theory;fault ride-through;optimal protection coordination;microgrids;modified instantaneous power theory;overcurrent relays},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10433740&isnumber=10566086


Z. Zou, J. Tang, G. Buticchi and M. Liserre, "Stabilization of Distribution Grids With High Penetration of Renewables: The Path From Decentralized Control to a Centralized One," in IEEE Industrial Electronics Magazine, vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 17-31, March 2024, doi: 10.1109/MIE.2023.3272771.
Abstract: The integration of renewable energies and electric vehicle (EV) charging stations is challenging the electric grid in terms of resonances caused by complex interaction mechanisms involving power convertor control and electromagnetic transients of the grid. Very often, these problems have been tackled with decentralized control approaches, which have difficulties in taking all the interdependencies into consideration. This article proposes a different perspective: a centralized control approach through a smart transformer (ST).
keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Power system stability;Harmonic analysis;Oscillators;Power harmonic filters;Impedance;Damping;Electric vehicle charging;Power distribution;Electromagnetic transients;Converters;Power control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10132307&isnumber=10477170


Q. Zhang, W. Jiang, J. Wang, K. Chen, M. Ma and Q. Chen, "A Novel Modulation Method to Suppress the Current Zero-Crossing Distortion for Vienna Rectifier With Different Control Methods Under Unbalanced Grid," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 71, no. 2, pp. 1135-1146, Feb. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2023.3257365.
Abstract: Vienna rectifier is a boost-type rectifier with unidirectional energy flow, which is widely used in many applications. Under unbalanced grid, there will be even harmonics in dc-link voltage and odd harmonics in input current if the traditional control methods are used. Therefore, two control methods for Vienna rectifier under unbalanced grid are introduced, which are balanced positive-sequence current control and instantaneous active power control. The current zero-crossing distortion (CZCD) is an inherent issue for Vienna rectifier due to its special circuit topology. The displacement angle between the input current and the voltage is revealed, which is the essence of CZCD. The issue of CZCD is more complex under unbalanced grid than that under balanced grid, and CZCD cannot be addressed well under existing suppression method. A novel method that can minimize CZCD under unbalanced grid is also proposed. The proposed method works well under both balanced and unbalanced grid. Finally, an experimental platform is built, and the feasibility and superiority of the proposed method are verified by comprehensive experiments.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Modulation;Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Fluctuations;Distortion;Reactive power;Current zero-crossing distortion (CZCD);unbalanced grid;Vienna rectifier},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10077539&isnumber=10223597


D. Ma, K. Wang and J. Wang, "Submodule Voltage Ripple Reduction for Back-to-back Modular Multilevel Converters Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," 2023 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Nashville, TN, USA, 2023, pp. 2505-2511, doi: 10.1109/ECCE53617.2023.10362317.Abstract: The Back-to-back Modular Multilevel Converter (BTB-MMC) consists of two Modular Multilevel Converters (MMC) with directly connected dc-link, and ac-sides tied to two grids to transfer active power. This paper focuses on the ride-through control of BTB-MMC when one grid experiences unbalanced conditions, which causes a zero-sequence double-line frequency power ripple within the three phase legs of the single-side MMC connected to the unbalanced grid voltage. To reduce the additional phase leg energy ripple and average submodule (SM) voltage ripple, this paper first summarizes the system control method of the BTB-MMC system, and then proposes a high-frequency dc-link voltage ripple and zero-sequence circulating current injection method to distribute the SM voltage ripple between both-side MMCs, decreasing the required SM capacitance and improving the power density of the BTB-MMC. The injection method is validated through a case study with simulation results. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Multilevel converters;Power system measurements;Simulation;Energy conversion;Power system stability;High frequency;back-to-back;modular multilevel converter (MMC);submodule (SM) voltage ripple;energy ripple;ripple reduction;circulating current;injection;unbalanced grid voltage},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10362317&isnumber=10361943

P. Meloni and A. Serpi, "Power Harmonic Component Suppression in Case of Un-Ideal Electro-Motive Forces," 2023 IEEE Vehicle Power and Propulsion Conference (VPPC), Milan, Italy, 2023, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/VPPC60535.2023.10403186.Abstract: A control system to suppress power Harmonic Components (HCs) when supplying an electric grid or motor characterized by un-ideal three-phase electro-motive forces (emfs) is presented in this paper. The proposed method can be applied in case of any three-phase emfs consisting of a certain number of HCs, each of which made up of positive-, negative-, and/or zero-sequence components. Based on emf features, different three-phase reference currents can be defined in accordance with the available degrees of freedom and power HC suppression targets. These reference currents are tracked by means of a deadbeat predictive current control algorithm, which is developed in the stationary reference frame to account for a possible wide and dense current harmonic spectrum. The effectiveness of the proposed solution is verified though a simulation study, whose results confirm the validity of the proposed theoretical approach. keywords: {Current control;Reactive power;Target tracking;Simulation;Power system harmonics;Harmonic analysis;Distortion;Current control;Harmonic analysis;Power conversion harmonics;Predictive control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10403186&isnumber=10403114

Z. Yan, Y. Jia, L. Wang and J. Ma, "A Distributed Static Series Compensator System for Impedance Regulation of Transmission Lines," 2023 3rd International Conference on Energy, Power and Electrical Engineering (EPEE), Wuhan, China, 2023, pp. 1145-1148, doi: 10.1109/EPEE59859.2023.10351995.Abstract: This article proposes a scheme to control the power flow distribution of the system through distributed transmission line impedance dynamic adjustment technology. Firstly, analyze the working principle and characteristics of the equipment, and study the impact of regulating equipment on transmission lines. Afterwards, the single turn transformer iron core is designed through equipment parameters, and the weight of the iron core is minimized as much as possible to reduce the weight of the equipment while meeting the conditions of line mounting. After obtaining the core parameters, design corresponding control strategies to adjust the output impedance of the equipment, and study the coordinated operation of multiple devices to control the system power flow. Finally, the theory was validated through simulation. keywords: {Reactive power;Power transmission lines;Prototypes;Transformer cores;Transformers;Iron;Regulation;control strategy;power-flow distribution;iron core design},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10351995&isnumber=10351782

X. Ma, Y. Chen, S. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Wang and W. Hu, "Knowledge-driven Identification Method for Low Voltage Ride through Strategy of Photovoltaic Inverters," 2023 5th International Conference on Power and Energy Technology (ICPET), Tianjin, China, 2023, pp. 278-283, doi: 10.1109/ICPET59380.2023.10367458.Abstract: The rapid development of renewable energy power generation technology represented by photovoltaic and wind power has changed the fault characteristics of the grid. However, there is a major problem in the calculation of short-circuit current in existing renewable energy: the current analytical research on fault currents of various types of renewable energy power supplies is too dependent on the control strategy and parameters of renewable energy, while the control strategy and parameters are too hard to acquire. Aiming at the above problems, a knowledge-driven identification method for low voltage ride through strategy of photovoltaic inverters is proposed. Firstly, multi-dimensional features reflecting the differences of different control strategies are extracted from the time-varying trajectories and a knowledge-driven control strategy classification feature set is constructed; secondly, a typical control strategy identification model based on the random forest algorithm is established. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method is verified by simulation results. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Renewable energy sources;Low voltage;Simulation;Short-circuit currents;Wind power generation;Feature extraction;knowledge-driven;renewable energy;low voltage ride through strategy;classification feature.},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10367458&isnumber=10367198

A. Marin-Hurtado, A. Escobar-Mejía and W. Gil-González, "Auxiliary Droop Frequency and Voltage Control for Grid-Forming Applied to Unbalanced Current Compensation," 2023 IEEE 14th International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Shanghai, China, 2023, pp. 840-845, doi: 10.1109/PEDG56097.2023.10215150.Abstract: The virtual synchronous machine (VSM) has been a potential solution to control the grid-forming converters to integrate renewable energies (RES) into the grid. It is responsible for emulating the kinetic energy and static/dynamic properties of conventional synchronous generators to solve the stability problems due to decrease inertia in the systems with high levels of RES. This has been increasing in the distribution grids where is common the single-phase loads and the current unbalance, which causes stability problems as the intensified frequency oscillations and the frequency deviation in the system. The VSM control is common in converters present in the balance system. However, the VSM control implementation in converters present in the unbalanced system is not a straightforward task due as the unbalances intensify the power oscillations to cause the VSM to have abnormal behavior. Nevertheless, the frequency and voltage droops controls are commonly used in the converters present in the unbalanced system, but they are used as grid-following converters. Therefore, this paper proposes an auxiliary droop frequency and voltage control (AFV) scheme to integrate into a virtual synchronous machine (VSM-AFV) in order to improve a four-wire power system’s stability during an unbalanced system. This approach is based on droop frequency and voltage control, and its law control is obtained from a system’s active power and reactive power flow exchange equation. Changes in the active power of the VSM based on unbalances presented in the distribution grid are considered to show the performance of the VSM-AFV. Results show that the VSM-AFV controller presents lower ROCOF, steady-state errors in output reactive power, and output current of a four-leg three-phase voltage source converter (4-LVSC) when compared to the VSM approach. keywords: {Reactive power;Renewable energy sources;Power system stability;Synchronous generators;Steady-state;Voltage control;Frequency synchronization;Droop frequency;droop voltage;four-leg three-phase voltage source inverter;grid forming;virtual synchronous machine},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10215150&isnumber=10215083

Y. Zhang, S. Zhang and X. Luo, "Propagation Mechanism and Suppression Measures of AC-Side Asymmetric Faults between AC and DC Hybrid Microgrid," 2023 IEEE 3rd International Conference on Electronic Technology, Communication and Information (ICETCI), Changchun, China, 2023, pp. 945-958, doi: 10.1109/ICETCI57876.2023.10176851.Abstract: When a fault occurs on the AC side of the AC/DC hybrid microgrid, the fault disturbance will spread to the DC side. Influenced by the topology and control strategy, the disturbance form will change a lot. Analyzing the fault propagation mechanism and designing suppression measures are of positive significance for strengthening the safety of the hybrid microgrid operation. This paper analyzes the influence of AC side asymmetric fault on DC microgrid, and shows that in addition to negative sequence component causing DC side power and voltage double frequency fluctuation, DC side bipolar power supply mode will also provide a new path for the propagation of fault zero sequence component, resulting in power frequency disturbance of DC bus voltage. These fluctuations affect the output stability of DC side distributed power supply. In order to suppress faults, this paper proposes a control method based on the control strategy of "U-U" type interconnected converter, which is improved by positive sequence components, and superimposed with negative sequence voltage and zero sequence voltage compensation, which is verified in PSCAD/EMTDC. The results show that this method has a certain inhibition effect on fault propagation. keywords: {Voltage measurement;Fluctuations;Voltage fluctuations;Microgrids;Hybrid power systems;Stability analysis;Topology;hybrid microgrid;fault propagation;unbalanced control;zero sequence compensation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10176851&isnumber=10176364

J. Yin, J. Wang, L. Chen, M. Wang, H. Luo and Y. Yang, "Analysis and Benchmarking of Grid-Forming Control for Power Converters," 2023 11th International Conference on Power Electronics and ECCE Asia (ICPE 2023 - ECCE Asia), Jeju Island, Korea, Republic of, 2023, pp. 2436-2442, doi: 10.23919/ICPE2023-ECCEAsia54778.2023.10213839.Abstract: Traditional electricity grids use large-capacity synchronous generators as power generation devices, which have the characteristics of large volume and high robustness. In recent years, the rapid development of renewable energy in alignment with the national strategy of Carbon Neutrality in China by 2060 has brought new opportunities and challenges to traditional power grids. Power electronics converters are the key to renewable energy integration to gradually replace traditional synchronous generators, leading to reduced inertia and more challenges. While being more flexible, it makes the stability of the grid worse. In view of this, various advanced control strategies have been developed in the literature. The control of grid-connected converters has been broadly divided into two groups, grid-following (GFL) and grid-forming (GFM). In this paper, the characteristics of the GFM control are benchmarked through simulations, mainly the virtual synchronous generator (VSG) control and the virtual oscillator control (VOC). The benchmarking indicates that the VSG control strategies with virtual inertia have less fluctuation in response to various disturbances and the VOC performs better in terms of dynamics. keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Fluctuations;Power system dynamics;Asia;Benchmark testing;Power system stability;Synchronous generators;Grid-following;grid-forming;inertia;renewable energy;stability},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10213839&isnumber=10213452

S. Pola, M. Azzouz, A. S. A. Awad and H. Sindi, "Fault Ride-Through Strategies for Synchronverter-Interfaced Energy Resources Under Asymmetrical Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 2391-2405, Oct. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2023.3273555.
Abstract: Synchronverters are inverters controlled to behave like synchronous generators. However, unbalanced faults or voltage dips may stimulate synchronverters to generate excessive currents and cause instantaneous active and reactive power oscillations at twice the grid's fundamental frequency. Therefore, this article proposes three fault ride-through (FRT) strategies to remedy these power oscillations and the unlimited current generation during unbalanced faults. The first strategy is based on an instantaneous active and reactive control that significantly reduces power oscillations. The second strategy relies on an average active and reactive control that ensures the delivery of average active and reactive power and maintains sinusoidal phase currents. Finally, the third FRT strategy employs a comprehensive instantaneous active and reactive control to eliminate power oscillations and maintain sinusoidal currents simultaneously. The proposed FRT strategies are equipped with a power management controller that delivers the required active and reactive power during normal operation and limits the inverter's phase currents during faults. Further, the proposed FRT strategies maintain the intrinsic features of synchronverters and ensure seamless activation of the proposed FRT strategies. Comparative results confirm the efficacy of the proposed strategies to reduce power oscillations, limit current generation, maintain synchronverters’ intrinsic features, and comply with grid codes.
keywords: {Reactive power;Power distribution;Inverters;Power system stability;Voltage fluctuations;Feature extraction;Renewable energy sources;Synchronverters;instantaneous power theory;fault ride-through;unbalanced faults;distributed generators},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10120995&isnumber=10248410


X. Miao, D. Zhao, B. Lin, H. Jiang and J. Chen, "A Differential Protection Scheme Based on Improved DTW Algorithm for Distribution Networks With Highly-Penetrated Distributed Generation," in IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 40399-40411, 2023, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3269298.
Abstract: Differential protection has been introduced into the distribution network to address the ineffectiveness of traditional protection due to the uncertainties of power flow caused by the access of multiple inverter-interfaced distributed generation (IIDG). Designed for lower data synchronization costs, this paper proposes a novel differential protection scheme based on improved dynamic time warping (DTW) distance. The proposed algorithm can effectively alleviate the singularity caused by DTW’s excessive X-axis distortion through relaxation search and derivative estimation and minimize the impact of data synchronization errors and data loss. Based on the proposed algorithm, the protection scheme combined with the feeder terminal unit (FTU) for fast fault isolation is designed, which can make full use of the existing equipment and reduce costs. Moreover, multiple influencing factors considered in this scheme, including transition resistance, penetration rate, and output intermittency of IIDG, variable network topology, underground cables, and hybrid lines. The test results demonstrate that the proposed protection scheme can effectively isolate short-circuit faults in various scenarios.
keywords: {Synchronization;Distribution networks;Resistance;Market research;Fault currents;Costs;Impedance;Distribution network;improved DTW;differential current protection;inverter-interfaced distributed generation;positive sequence current;feeder terminal unit},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10106275&isnumber=10005208


M. R. K. Rachi, M. A. Awal and I. Husain, "Asymmetrical Fault Ride-Through and Power Oscillation Characterization for Grid-Tied Voltage Source Converters," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 59, no. 4, pp. 4550-4561, July-Aug. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2023.3268280.
Abstract: As the number of converter-interfaced distributed energy resources connected to the power system continues to increase rapidly, recent grid codes require these grid-tied converters to maintain grid connection during faults to ensure power supply security and reliability. In this work, we analyze the oscillation in the injected real and reactive power that a grid-tied voltage source converter (VSC) introduces as it attempts to contribute to the power quality and improve the voltage at the point of common coupling (PCC) during an asymmetrical fault. We propose a new double sequence current reference generation method that can be utilized to derive a closed-form quantification of the peak value of both the real and reactive power oscillation during asymmetrical fault ride-through (AFRT) analytically. The effect of the resulting bus voltage oscillation and ripple current requirement at twice the grid frequency, corresponding to the real power oscillation, on the input DC bus capacitor and upstream converter is analyzed for facilitating system component sizing. Furthermore, the proposed current reference generation formulation helps control the negative-sequence current injection during fault to assist with fault identification. The theoretical analysis is validated through simulation in PLECS for both asymmetrical and symmetrical fault scenarios. Experimental results for a three-phase, grid-tied VSC operating under both asymmetrical and symmetrical faults are provided to evaluate the performance of the proposed current reference generation method and validate the analysis presented
keywords: {Oscillators;Power system stability;Voltage control;Reactive power;Inverters;Fault diagnosis;Current limiters;Distributed energy resources;fault ride-through;grid-tied voltage source converter;power oscillation;symmetrical and asymmetrical fault},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10105492&isnumber=10185984


B. Sharma et al., "Power Sharing in Three-Level NPC Inverter Based Three-Phase Four-Wire Islanding Microgrids With Unbalanced Loads," in IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 20725-20740, 2023, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3250219.
Abstract: The droop-based control schemes are widely used for power-sharing and control of the isolated microgrids. The conventional droop control scheme with inner current and voltage controllers can work effectively under ideal voltage. However, the existence of unbalance tends its performance to worsen. This paper aims to propose an enhanced droop control method to improve the power-sharing, and maintain the distributed generators’ (DGs) terminal voltages and the system frequency under the balanced as well as unbalanced loads. The enhancements of the proposed control scheme include the droop controller, inner current and voltage controller, and virtual impedance loop. The proposed virtual impedance deals with the accurate sharing of powers in the case of unequal line impedance and the control of zero sequence current. Moreover, to enable the proposed control to compensate for the unbalance, three-level neutral point clamped (NPC) inverters are used to form a three-phase four-wire microgrid. With this control scheme, the voltage unbalance factors (VUFs) of the DGs’ terminal voltages are reduced from 4% to less than 1%, negative sequence reactive powers, which are also an indication of unbalance, have been reduced significantly, and the system frequency is maintained within the standard permissible limit of 2.5%. Furthermore, a local load controller is also proposed to control the reactive loading of the DGs when they have local loads supplied from their terminals. The investigations have been carried out under simulation as well as lab-based environments to validate the efficacy of the proposed control method.
keywords: {Microgrids;Impedance;Inverters;Voltage control;Capacitors;Wires;Stress;Load modeling;Droop control;local load controller;power-sharing;three-phase four-wire power systems;unbalanced loads;virtual impedance},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10056141&isnumber=10005208


X. Li, Z. Wang, L. Zhu, L. Guo and C. Wang, "Analytical Dual-Sequence Current Injections Feasible Region of Weak-Grid Connected VSC Under Asymmetric Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 38, no. 6, pp. 5546-5559, Nov. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3226560.
Abstract: For phase-locked-loop synchronization (PLL-Syn) based Weak-Grid connected Voltage Source Converter (WG-VSC) system under asymmetric grid faults, published works mainly focus on existing of equilibrium point and small signal stability, which cannot address PLL-Syn transient stability problems. For the first time, we have proposed an analytical solution to the question of “Whether the WG-VSC system can reach to a new available equilibrium point (EP) of fault-on state from original EP of pre-fault state without loss of PLL-Syn transient stability under asymmetric faults?”. Dual-sequence current injections feasible region (CIFR) of WG-VSCs in positive and negative sequence current injection space is defined firstly. Then, by considering PLL-Syn transient stability constraint, Maximum available current constraint, and PCC Voltage constraint, an analytical expression of CIFR has been obtained. Finally, experiments results based on detailed switching model in RT-BOX hardware-in-loop platform have been provided to verify the CIFR constructed in this paper. It should be noted that the work of this paper can not only address PLL-Syn transient stability problems of WG-VSC system under asymmetric faults, but also can pave the way for asymmetric fault ride-through control considering transient stability constraints.
keywords: {Power system stability;Transient analysis;Stability criteria;Phase locked loops;Numerical stability;Power system dynamics;Voltage-source converters;WG-VSC;PLL-Syn transient stability;asymme tric grid faults;current injections feasible region},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9969926&isnumber=10288290


V. R. Chowdhury, "Enhanced Operation of a Virtual Synchronous Machine Under Unbalanced Grid Voltage Condition Based on Lyapunov Energy Function," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Industrial Electronics, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 589-602, April 2023, doi: 10.1109/JESTIE.2022.3227008.
Abstract: Three-phase grid connected inverters integrated with renewable energy sources like photovoltaic systems require to provide inertia to damp out oscillations in the frequency. However, during grid voltage sag or unbalance classical virtual synchronous machines (VSMs) cannot maintain oscillation free power supplied to the grid. Therefore, the maximum power point tracking of the photovoltaic system cannot be maintained, and optimal usage of the available photovoltaic power cannot be accomplished. To cater this problem, in this article a Lyapunov energy function-based augmented controller architecture has been proposed alongside a VSM during unbalanced grid voltage to effectively suppress these double frequency oscillations in the power. Identifying the dynamics of these oscillations followed by detailed stability analyses for the proposed architecture have been presented. In comparison to classical VSMs, the augmented system provides better transient response as well as double frequency power oscillation damping during grid voltage sag or unbalance. To verify the efficacy and understand the challenges of practical implementation of the proposed architecture, experimental verification on a reduced scale laboratory prototype is performed and various important case study results are obtained and presented in this article.
keywords: {Oscillators;Voltage control;Inverters;Synchronous machines;Computer architecture;Harmonic analysis;Phase locked loops;  $\alpha \beta$   axis;augmented control (AC);dual second-order generalized integrator (DSOGI);Lyapunov energy function;maximum power point tracking (MPPT);phase locked loop (PLL);photovoltaic (PV) power generation system;point of common coupling (PCC);synchronverter;three phase inverter;total harmonic distortion (THD)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9970315&isnumber=10081120


X. Wang and L. Peng, "Dynamic Voltage Equalization Control of D-STATCOM Under Unbalanced Grid Faults in a Low-Voltage Network," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 2384-2397, Feb. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2022.3213405.
Abstract: Unbalanced grid faults are very harmful to the network operation. Distributed static synchronous compensator (D-STATCOM) can help to support the grid voltage by injecting the reactive power into the inductive power grid. However, this approach turns to be ineffective for a low-voltage grid, where the network impedance is mainly resistive. In this article, a dynamic voltage equalization control (DVEC) scheme is proposed to suppress the negative sequence voltage, and therefore, reduce the voltage unbalance during the faults in the resistive network. This effect is achieved through transferring proper active power from the negative sequence channel to the positive sequence channel. And the dual-sequence active currents are controlled by DVEC without exchanging extra active power with the grid except the little circuit loss compensation. By flexibly adjusting the control parameter of DVEC, current peak and active power oscillation can be limited within a preset range, respectively, during the process of maximizing the voltage control. As a result, the DVEC scheme can ensure the safe operation of D-STATCOM and the stability of the power grid. Moreover, experimental results are reported to validate the correctness and effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
keywords: {Automatic voltage control;Impedance;Circuit faults;Low voltage;Resistance;Reactive power;Stability criteria;Current limitation;distributed static synchronous compensator (D-STATCOM);low-voltage network;power oscillation limitation;unbalanced grid faults;voltage regulation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9916131&isnumber=9952160


C. Fu, C. Zhang, G. Zhang, C. Zhang and Q. Su, "Finite-Time Command Filtered Control of Three-Phase AC/DC Converter Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 70, no. 7, pp. 6876-6886, July 2023, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2022.3204959.
Abstract: For the three-phase ac/dc converter, unbalanced grid voltages cause grid current distortions and dc-link voltage fluctuations, threatening the safe operation of the power grid or loads. To address this issue, the control targets of the ac/dc converter under unbalanced grids are transformed into a unified power tracking problem by introducing modified power references. Then, the finite-time command filtered control (FTCFC) of the ac/dc converter is proposed, and the dual-loop control structure of inner power and outer dc-link voltage is studied, where the active and reactive powers are independently regulated without the current control loop and the phase-locked loop. In this method, the proposed command filter estimates the power references' derivatives, and the fixed-time disturbance observer is designed to suppress the unknown load disturbances on the dc-link voltage control loop. Theoretical analysis and experimental results validate the effectiveness of the proposed FTCFC method, and the fast and accurate power tracking performance is achieved for all three control modes. Compared with the PI+backstepping control, the FTCFC method improves the tracking performance of the dc-link voltage and powers and reduces the current THD by 35.2%.
keywords: {AC-DC power converters;Voltage control;Reactive power;Tracking loops;Phase locked loops;Active filters;Voltage measurement;Command filter;continuous finite-time tracking control;three-phase PWM rectifier;unbalanced grids},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9889118&isnumber=10048563


H. Deng, Y. Qi, J. Fang, Y. Tang and V. Debusschere, "A Robust Low-Voltage-Ride-Through Strategy for Grid-Forming Converters Based on Reactive Power Synchronization," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 346-357, Jan. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2022.3204912.
Abstract: Grid-forming converters (GFMCs) prevail for their capability of providing voltage and frequency support in modern power grids with large integration of intermittent distributed power sources. As GFMCs behave as voltage sources, the current limiting of GFMCs under large disturbances requires special efforts. Furthermore, a reliable GFMC should also be capable of remaining synchronized with the grid during and after large voltage disturbances. To avoid the instability caused by phase-locked loops during low-voltage faults, GFMCs usually retain the active power synchronization under low-voltage faults when the current saturation is triggered. When voltage sags are severe, the transient stability highly depends on the fault duration. This article proposed a robust fault ride through strategy for GFMCs based on reactive power synchronization (Q-Syn) under voltage sags. The Q-Syn method ensures transient stability of GFMCs regardless of the fault duration or level. Furthermore, fast postfault recovery can be achieved with the Q-Syn method. The effectiveness of the proposed method is verified by experiments.
keywords: {Power system stability;Transient analysis;Voltage control;Synchronization;Stability criteria;Power quality;Reactive power;Current limiting;fault-ride-through;grid-form ing converter (GFMC);transient stability;voltage sag},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9880562&isnumber=9911205


C. -Y. Tang and J. -H. Jheng, "An Active Power Ripple Mitigation Strategy for Three-Phase Grid-Tied Inverters Under Unbalanced Grid Voltages," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 27-33, Jan. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2022.3198410.
Abstract: This letter proposes an active power ripple mitigation strategy for the three-phase three-wire grid-tied inverter. Under the unbalanced grid voltage scenarios, the double-line frequency oscillation will have occurred on the inverter output power and the dc-link voltage. Traditionally, the three-phase four-wire or the three-phase four-leg topology could be adopted to deal with this issue. Besides, the negative and the zero-sequence current component can be controlled to cancel out the power ripple. However, the circuit cost and control complexity might be increased. Therefore, a virtual phase-current regulation (VPCR) method is developed by adding compensation to the current feedback of the fault voltage. The compensation value is consistent with the voltage drop ratio, which can effectively offset the actual power ripple. The main feature of the VPCR is its simplicity, whereas it can be realized via the digital signal processor without adding extra circuit components. Theoretical analysis and mathematical derivations of the VPCR will also be revealed. Finally, a 3 kW prototype circuit with both simulation and experimental results verify the performance and feasibility of the proposed strategy. The experimental results show that the output power ripple can be eliminated with 64.3% via the proposed VPCR.
keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Oscillators;Topology;Circuit faults;Power system stability;Digital signal processors;Power ripple mitigation;three-phase three-wire inverter;unbalanced grid voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9857608&isnumber=9911205


P. Ge, C. Tu, F. Xiao, Q. Guo and J. Gao, "Design-Oriented Analysis and Transient Stability Enhancement Control for a Virtual Synchronous Generator," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 70, no. 3, pp. 2675-2684, March 2023, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2022.3172761.
Abstract: Under fault conditions, virtual synchronous generators (VSGs) are prone to lose transient stability, similar to synchronous generators. However, the existing studies on VSG transient stability are not comprehensive. The transient characteristics of VSGs are highly affected by control parameters, but the transient models of VSGs in existing studies are overly simplified. In addition, the critical clearing angle (CCA) and critical clearing time (CCT) are two indices used to measure the transient stability of a system, but there are few studies that consider both CCA and CCT. In this article, we analyze the CCA and CCT quantitatively to describe the transient stability boundary of a VSG under different control parameters and fault conditions. Then, an equal proportional area criterion is proposed to provide guidance for the control of virtual inertia in the VSG. Based on a theoretical analysis, a transient control method for a VSG is proposed, which can improve the transient stability of the VSG in terms of both CCA and CCT. Finally, simulation and experimental tests are performed to validate the correctness of the theoretical analysis and the proposed method.
keywords: {Transient analysis;Power system stability;Stability criteria;Damping;Voltage control;Synchronous generators;Steady-state;Equal proportional area criterion (EPAC);transient control method;transient stability boundary;virtual synchronous generator (VSG)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9773015&isnumber=9955034


S. Bhowmick, D. Mukherjee, S. Maiti and C. Chakraborty, "A Comparative Analysis of Different Control Strategies for Three-Level Neutral Point Clamped based Photovoltaic Central Inverter under Unbalanced Grid Operation," 2022 IEEE 1st Industrial Electronics Society Annual On-Line Conference (ONCON), kharagpur, India, 2022, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ONCON56984.2022.10126988.Abstract: This paper investigates the different control techniques need to be applied to a three-phase three-level neutral point clamped based photovoltaic central inverter connected to an unbalanced utility grid. The power conversion stage for integrating the PV source to three-phase utility grid consists of a three-level DC-DC boost converter + three-phase three-level NPC based central inverter. The three-level boost converter helps in balancing the individual DC link capacitor voltages during sub-MPPT mode of operation. With unbalanced grid operation, the central inverter has been controlled to maintain either the balanced positive sequence components of three-phase grid current or a reduction in grid side active and reactive power fluctuations by allowing a certain amount of negative sequence current in the system. The entire system has been simulated in PLECS simulation tool to obtain the power loss distribution incurred in different parts of the system. This paper analyses the different power losses incurred in system for different control strategies when the PV central inverter injects power to an unbalanced utility grid and compares them to obtain the most efficient one. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Industrial electronics;Reactive power;Fluctuations;Capacitors;Transformers;Control systems;photovoltaic inverters;grid unbalancing;power loss analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10126988&isnumber=10126141

J. Sharma, K. T. Lulbadda, A. Golder, T. Sidhu and S. S. Williamson, "Fault Analysis of Microgrids with Inverter Interfaced Resources in Grid-Connected and Islanded Modes," 2022 IEEE 1st Industrial Electronics Society Annual On-Line Conference (ONCON), kharagpur, India, 2022, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ONCON56984.2022.10127023.Abstract: The increasing penetration of inverter-based generation such as solar, wind and battery energy storage systems (BESS) has an impact on the fault currents in a microgrid. Also, if the microgrid is grid-connected or islanded affects the fault current. As such, it is important to conduct fault analysis of microgrids in grid-connected and islanded modes with different penetration levels of inverter-based generation sources to understand the impact of increasing levels of renewable energy on the fault currents. Different types of faults in a microgrid with inverter-based resources are simulated and the results are discussed and analyzed in this paper. keywords: {Wind energy generation;Industrial electronics;Renewable energy sources;Wind energy;Microgrids;Inverters;Batteries;microgrid protection;fault analysis;inverter-based resources;distributed energy resources},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10127023&isnumber=10126141

H. Wang, Y. Liu and N. R. Watson, "Enhanced Grid-tie Converter Control Under Unbalanced Conditions with no PLL," 2022 7th IEEE Workshop on the Electronic Grid (eGRID), Auckland, New Zealand, 2022, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/eGRID57376.2022.9990009.Abstract: The ubiquitous Phase-locked loop (PLL) is used to synchronise power converters with the AC system. The limitations of the PLL when the AC system is weak are well known. This paper investigates the modelling and control of Grid-Side Voltage Source Converter (GS-VSC) of a wind-turbine under unbalanced network conditions and connected to a weak system. The proposed control scheme regulates the instantaneous active and reactive power at the PCC. The operation of the GS-VSC under unbalanced voltage condition is analysed and the concept of using different control target is present, which is independent of a PLL. A new current control scheme comprising of a central controller and a compensation controller is proposed. Simulation results using PSCAD/EMTDC are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme and to demonstrate the operation under unbalanced network conditions in a weak grid. keywords: {Current control;Reactive power;Control design;Simulation;Conferences;Wind turbines;Phase locked loops;Control design;unbalance;weak grid;wind turbine;central controller},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9990009&isnumber=9990005

A. Gupta and P. C. Sekhar, "A Review of Control Strategies for Operation of Distributed Resources Under Grid Faults," 2022 IEEE PES Innovative Smart Grid Technologies - Asia (ISGT Asia), Singapore, Singapore, 2022, pp. 200-204, doi: 10.1109/ISGTAsia54193.2022.10003590.Abstract: India is aiming for 100% electrification of its territories. In the process, many remote locations need to be connected to nearby electricity supply lines. Interconnection of a remote village with the central grid is a very extensive step, which increases the necessity of converter-based generators as many of them are of renewable based sources. These systems show different characteristics from traditional alternator under faults and affect the operation of the protection relay and system stability. Hence it is necessary to have diverse and robust control strategies to ensure the system stability during and post transient faults. In this connection, this paper aims to review the existing control strategies for operation of distributed generators under line to ground fault, the most common fault. The performance of different control strategies are studied and are compared with the help of numerical simulations. keywords: {Robust control;Renewable energy sources;Asia;Power system stability;Numerical simulation;Stability analysis;Generators;Control strategies;Distributed resources;Integration with grid;unsymmetrical faults},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10003590&isnumber=10003473

J. Wang, "Autonomous Optimal Voltage Support Scheme of Two-Stage PV System for Grid Fault Ride Through," IECON 2022 – 48th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Brussels, Belgium, 2022, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/IECON49645.2022.9968383.Abstract: Symmetric or asymmetric grid fault can cause faulty phase sudden voltage dip and the unexpected trip of local generation units. Also, fault-ride-through requirements bring challenges to inverter’s operation, such as active power oscillation due to unbalanced voltage and over-current injection in low-voltage phase. To address above issues, an autonomous optimal voltage support scheme which aims to support point of common coupling (PCC) voltage amplitudes by two-stage photovoltaic (PV) system during fault is proposed. The scheme can determine optimal positive and negative sequence reference current considering fault characteristics, grid impedance condition, maximum available PV generation as well as inverter’s physical and operational constraints, by calculating the analytical solution of a two-variable nonlinear programming problem. And simulation results demonstrate the usefulness of proposed voltage support strategy for avoiding six-PV solar farm unexpected trip during short-time symmetric and asymmetric faults. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Industrial electronics;Couplings;Low voltage;Voltage fluctuations;Simulation;Programming;grid fault;voltage support;two-stage PV converter;positive and negative sequence current injection;optimization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9968383&isnumber=9968303

R. Bhandare, K. Vaidya and K. R. Suraparaju, "Grid Synchronization using Machine Learning," 2022 IEEE 2nd Mysore Sub Section International Conference (MysuruCon), Mysuru, India, 2022, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/MysuruCon55714.2022.9972611.Abstract: Grid synchronization is a crucial aspect of controlling grid-connected power electronic converters. To control energy transfers, the primary phase angle and frequency at the point of common coupling need to be tracked online. Phase Locked-Loop (PLL) is among the highest performing algorithms for grid synchronization; however, its dynamic response is limited in the presence of grid disturbances, which in turn affects the stability of the overall system. In this paper, a novel machine learning based solution is proposed which is capable of precisely extracting the state of the system even during adverse grid conditions. The major reason for the lack of wide-scale integration of machine learning systems in this domain is the lack of a high-quality dataset. Hence this study also introduces the "GridSync" dataset which can be used to accurately model real-life fault scenarios. The model is able to achieve a mean average error in the order of 10−3 and can be applied to any grid across the globe with minimum or no finetuning. keywords: {Training;Heuristic algorithms;Machine learning;Transformers;Synchronization;Phase locked loops;Task analysis;Phase Locked-Loop;Machine Learning;Artificial Intelligence;Grid-Synchronization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9972611&isnumber=9971799

J. Liu et al., "Windfarm Transient Support Analysis Considering the Different Wind Power Penetration Levels," 2022 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting (IAS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2022, pp. 1-9, doi: 10.1109/IAS54023.2022.9940057.Abstract: The wind generation installation meets a remarkable increase in a decade in order to realize the carbon dioxide emission reduction. However, the high penetration of wind energy into the power system brings many operating challenges to the power system. Traditional system operating codes ask the generations to provide necessary support on the system frequency and voltage during the contingency. With the increased integration of wind energy into the system, some new codes are enacted to ask the wind power producer to participate in the system emergency regulation. However, the different penetration levels influence of wind energy on the system regulation have not received too much attention in the existing codes. In this paper, a code study of the wind farm transient support is conducted considering the different wind power penetration levels, in addition, some suggestions for the wind farm transient support codes are proposed. From the three control periods: wind generation participation moment, wind generation exit moment, and system fault recovery support by wind generation, the transient support capability of the wind generation under different penetration levels is studied. The case study conducted by a detailed wind farm model built in EMTDC/PSCAD provides simulation verifications to provide a guide for wind farm operators to make appropriate transient support control strategies. keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Codes;Wind energy;Stability criteria;Wind farms;Wind power generation;Power system stability;renewable energy;frequency stability;voltage stability;wind farm;transient support},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9940057&isnumber=9939671

A. Pandey and A. Singh, "Design of a Gagenbuer Polynomial based Low Voltage Ride ThroughScheme for three-phase system," 2022 IEEE 3rd Global Conference for Advancement in Technology (GCAT), Bangalore, India, 2022, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/GCAT55367.2022.9971826.Abstract: This paper describes the design and implementation of a Gegenbuer polynomial (GP)-based controller for the operation of a three-phase grid coupled to a renewable PV array. The PV source is linked at the DC link of the voltage source converter (VSC). Least Mean Square (LMS) is used to train the suggested GP method for calculating the fundamental load current value. The controller has many modes of operation and is designed to handle power quality (PQ) concerns. In addition to its normal mode of operation, it can withstand voltage dips. The VSC injects reactive power into the grid in case of low voltage ride through (LVRT) mode of operation. The findings illustrate both normal grid conditions, in which the system will function in unity power factor (UPF), and abnormal grid scenarios, in which the system must run in LVRT mode. Simulation and experimental findings for the different operating modes have been validated using the proposed GP-based controller. keywords: {Reactive power;Low voltage;Renewable energy sources;Voltage fluctuations;Power quality;Estimation;Harmonic distortion;active power;reactive power;PV;LVRT;MPPT},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9971826&isnumber=9971808

G. S. Rocha, A. W. dos Santos Serra, C. A. S. C. Branco, H. A. Oliveira, J. G. de Matos and L. A. de Souza Ribeiro, "A Strategy for Smooth Microgrid Transitions without Phase Misalignment and Voltage Mismatch," 2022 24th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications (EPE'22 ECCE Europe), Hanover, Germany, 2022, pp. 1-10.Abstract: In this work, it is proposed a modified control structure to provide smooth transitions of control modes of Grid-forming Converter without phase misalignment and voltage mismatch. A background of the traditional structure is provided and a carefully description of the method is introduced. At the results, a comparison with methods in literature is carried out and it was possible to prove that with the correct phase and voltage compensations, one can almost eliminate the transients in the grid voltage due to the switching of control modes of the Grid-forming Converter and transition of the MG operating mode. keywords: {Limiting;Europe;Switches;Microgrids;IEEE Standards;Synchronization;Power conversion;«Microgrid»;«Seamless transfer»;«Synchronization»;«Grid-forming converters»;«Voltage Source Converters (VSCs)»},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9907160&isnumber=9907026

T. Cui, J. Liang, S. Liu, J. Dong, X. Li and A. Li, "Research on PV Low Voltage Ride-Through Control Based on RT-LAB Hardware-in-the-Loop," 2022 China International Conference on Electricity Distribution (CICED), Changsha, China, 2022, pp. 1299-1304, doi: 10.1109/CICED56215.2022.9929203.Abstract: As a key indicator of whether the photovoltaic power generation system is friendly to the grid, low voltage ride-through is related to the safe and stable operation of the grid. In order to further enhance the low voltage ride-through capability of photovoltaic power generation systems, a low voltage ride through strategy based on RT-LAB hardware-in-the-loop is proposed in this paper. First of all, in view of the problem of disconnection of units caused by the rise of DC side busbar voltage caused by the sudden drop of grid voltage, the correlation coefficient of reducing MPPT operation is introduced, which effectively suppresses the rise of DC side voltage. Then, the underlying control mechanism of photovoltaic inverters is explored. On this basis, the control loop and operating mode of the inverter during the fault are reshaped to limit the overcurrent of the power electronic device. Finally, it is verified on the RT-LAB hardware-in-the-loop simulation platform, and the results show that the strategy works well under different drop depths. Both have good dynamic reactive power support ability, and have better voltage regulation and voltage regulation ability. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Correlation coefficient;Low voltage;Reactive power;Hardware-in-the-loop simulation;Power system stability;Inverters;photovoltaic grid-connected;low voltage ride through;hardware-in-the-loop simulation;RT-LAB;reactive power support},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9929203&isnumber=9928807

N. Mohammed, W. Zhou and B. Bahrani, "Comparison of PLL-Based and PLL-Less Control Strategies for Grid-Following Inverters Considering Time and Frequency Domain Analysis," in IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 80518-80538, 2022, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3195494.
Abstract: This article presents a comprehensive comparison of three control strategies used for grid-following inverters (GFLIs). The first strategy is the phase-locked loop (PLL)-based vector current control (VCC), and the other two PLL-less controllers are the voltage-modulated direct power control (VMDPC) and the linear-parameter-varying power-synchronized control (LPV-PSC). The VCC relies on the PLL to synchronize with the grid frequency to control the exchanged real and reactive power with the grid, which may result in instability issues under weak grid conditions. To prevent this, the VMDPC and LPV-PSC are proposed recently as PLL-less approaches to overcome the difficulties of the VCC in weak grid conditions. The performances of the VCC, VMDPC, and LPV-PSC are comprehensively reviewed in this article, considering the operations of the GFLIs under both strong and weak grids. In each operation mode, the provided tests investigate: 1) step response of active and reactive power, 2) frequency jump in the grid voltage source, 3) phase jump in the grid voltage source, and 4) voltage sag in the grid voltage source. In addition to evaluating the three controllers in the time-domain, the frequency-domain impedance-based stability analysis based on the generalized Nyquist criterion is also considered, which confirms the time-domain findings in terms of accurate predictions of the stable/unstable operations of the GFLIs that are equipped with these controllers. It is found that, compared to the conventional VCC and the VMDPC, the LPV-PSC has promising performance under various test conditions in both strong and weak grids, which may be a future solution for weak-grids connection of the GFLIs.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Voltage control;Time-domain analysis;Voltage measurement;Power control;Inverters;Frequency-domain analysis;Direct power control;grid-following inverters;linear-parameter-varying control;power-synchronized inverters;stability;vector current control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9846960&isnumber=9668973


S. Luo, W. Wu, E. Koutroulis, H. S. -H. Chung and F. Blaabjerg, "A New Unbalanced Voltage Compensation Method Based on HOPF Oscillator for Three-Phase DC/AC Inverters With Unbalanced Loads," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 4245-4255, Nov. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2022.3184911.
Abstract: In islanded microgrids, distributed generators (DGs) are employed as distributed compensators to improve the power quality on the load side. Due to the access of unbalanced loads, the low-voltage microgrid will naturally exhibit three-phase unbalance, which may cause additional power losses and deteriorate power quality. Therefore, this paper proposes a novel unbalanced-voltage compensation control method based on the Hopf oscillator, which introduces the negative-sequence voltage and current into the traditional Hopf oscillator to achieve the negative sequence voltage droop characteristics. It can not only realize the negative sequence droop control of a single inverter, but it is also capable to support the reactive power automatic distribution between multi-parallel grid-forming inverters. Compared with the traditional unbalanced voltage compensation method based on filtered negative sequence reactive power, the proposed unbalanced voltage compensation method can slightly improve the dynamic response. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.
keywords: {Inverters;Oscillators;Voltage control;Microgrids;Reactive power;Voltage control;Power harmonic filters;Grid-forming inverters;Hopf oscillator;unbalanced-voltage compensation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9802696&isnumber=9927219


E. B. Avdiaj, S. D’Arco, L. Piegari and J. A. Suul, "Negative Sequence Control for Virtual Synchronous Machines Under Unbalanced Conditions," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 5670-5685, Oct. 2022, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2022.3175169.
Abstract: In this article, five strategies for controlling the negative sequence currents of a virtual synchronous machine (VSM) under unbalanced conditions are comparatively assessed, considering both grid-connected and islanded operations. While these strategies have been individually proposed in recent literature, their characteristics and performance have not been systematically evaluated. Thus, a VSM structure serving as a basis for comparing the different strategies is presented in detail, with modifications for preventing double frequency power oscillations from influencing the virtual swing equation and the inertial dynamics. The active and reactive power oscillations, and the power transfer capability within the converter current limitation, are theoretically derived as a function of the unbalances in the local voltage. Simulation results and experimental validation on a 50-kVA modular multilevel converter (MMC) prototype with 12 sub-modules per arm demonstrate the validity of the theoretical analysis. The presented results serve as the basis for evaluating the applicability of the studied control strategies under different operating conditions.
keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Voltage measurement;Oscillators;Power electronics;Impedance;Phase locked loops;Grid-forming control;high voltage direct current transmission;islanded operation;modular multilevel converters (MMCs);negative sequence current control;positive and negative sequence components;power transfer capability unbalanced three-phase systems;virtual impedance;virtual synchronous machines (VSMs)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9775084&isnumber=9908063


M. Karimi-Ghartemani, H. Karimi, S. A. Khajehoddin and S. M. Hoseinizadeh, "Efficient Modeling and Systematic Design of Enhanced Phase-Locked Loop Structures," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 37, no. 8, pp. 9061-9072, Aug. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2022.3157267.
Abstract: This article presents approaches for efficient modeling and systematic design of enhanced phase-locked loop (ePLL) structures. While different ePLL structures have found a wide acceptance for various applications, their modeling and design aspects have not been fully and systematically reported in the existing literature. This article fills this gap by presenting an effective modeling approach for both the single- and three-phase ePLLs. The models are derived with a view to minimize the number of parameters to be adjusted to simplify the design. The models are then used to develop systematic design algorithms for their parameters. As an example, application of the ePLL in a grid-connected inverter is formulated and studied through simulation and experimental results. The design and simulation files are made available.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Voltage;Power system dynamics;Estimation;Stability analysis;Harmonic analysis;Systematics;Enhanced phase-locked loop (ePLL);phase-locked loop (PLL);PLL design;PLL modeling;unified three-phase signal processor;voltage-source converter (VSC)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9729615&isnumber=9770296


J. Wang and L. Yang, "Design of A Three-Phase Software Phase-Locked loop for UPS Inverter," 2022 IEEE 6th Information Technology and Mechatronics Engineering Conference (ITOEC), Chongqing, China, 2022, pp. 741-745, doi: 10.1109/ITOEC53115.2022.9734329.Abstract: Since the auxiliary three-phase oil pump motor of ship machine set needs uninterrupted power supply(UPS), the oil pump motor needs to be switched to UPS equipment for power supply in case of power loss of the generator. In order to realize the smooth transition of the oil pump motor when switching to UPS, the three-phase voltage output by the inverter in UPS needs to be in the same frequency and phase as the generator voltage. In this paper, the basic working principle of UPS is introduced, the advantages and disadvantages of two phase-locked loops for tracking phase are analyzed, and a phase-locked loop(PLL) based on second-order generalized integrator is selected to be used in inverter. Finally, the feasibility of this method is verified by experiments. keywords: {Oils;Pumps;Voltage;Switches;Inverters;Software;Generators;ups;inverter;software phase-locked loop;second-order generalized integrator},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9734329&isnumber=9734293

M. A. Parazdeh, M. Eldoromi and A. A. M. Birjandi, "Tan-Sun Transformation based Virtual Inductance Control Loop for Unbalanced Power Sharing of Islanded AC Microgrids," 2022 13th Power Electronics, Drive Systems, and Technologies Conference (PEDSTC), Tehran, Iran, Islamic Republic of, 2022, pp. 460-465, doi: 10.1109/PEDSTC53976.2022.9767524.Abstract: In this paper, a hierarchical control scheme, including a Tan-Sun coordinate system primary control structure, for islanded AC Microgrids with unbalanced conditions is presented. The proposed control strategy involves the application of the Closed-loop Initial Phase Detection Adaptive (CIPDA) system based on the Tan-Sun coordinate system in each distributed generation (DG) unit. Furthermore, an adjustable Notch Filter (ANF) with Microgrid frequency is employed for the unbalanced currents detection unit. The traditional droop control method is presented through using Proportional-Integral controller (PI) for the regulation of voltage and current in each unit as well as the determination virtual inductance (DVI) for the opposite droop relation between the unbalanced power, negative-sequence virtual inductance, and transient coupling unit to determine the opposite droop reference. The negative-sequence virtual impedance unit generates a negative-sequence voltage reference using the Tan-Sun inverse matrix for the switching units by receiving the valid inductance from the DVI unit. The results obtained from simulation in the environment of MATLAB/Simulink software confirm the correct operation of the proposed control structure under unbalanced conditions. keywords: {Resistance;Inductance;Adaptive systems;Microgrids;Switches;Software;Impedance;distributed generation;droop control;microgrid;primary control;Tan-Sun coordinate system;unbalanced load;unbalanced power sharing},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9767524&isnumber=9767204

G. Son and Q. Li, "Control Techniques for CRM-Based High-Frequency Soft-Switching Three-Phase Inverter Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 37, no. 6, pp. 6613-6624, June 2022, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2022.3141978.
Abstract: This article presents control techniques for the critical conduction mode(CRM) based high-frequency soft-switching three-phase inverter under unbalanced grid conditions. The soft-switching technique with silicon carbide (SiC) power devices allows the inverter to operate at hundreds of kHz with high efficiency and high power density. To extend the soft-switching technique to more practical cases, behaviors of the inverter under unbalanced grid conditions, specifically voltage sag, are investigated. During the voltage sag, the ac voltage at the grid becomes unbalanced. This requires unbalanced ac current reference to avoid output active power oscillation. With the unbalanced grid voltage and the ac current reference, the inverter loses the soft-switching capability. Continuous conduction mode (CCM) operation occurs where discontinuous conduction mode (DCM) operation is intended leading to large turn-on loss. To eliminate the CCM issue, two improved modulation techniques are proposed by using off-time extension in the CRM phase and by skipping pulses in the DCM phase. This article discusses how the CCM operation arises and details the proposed control methods. The performance of the proposed control is validated experimentally under a variety of grid imbalance cases with an SiC-based three-phase inverter prototype.
keywords: {Inverters;Customer relationship management;Switching frequency;Power quality;Frequency synchronization;Zero voltage switching;Silicon carbide;Critical conduction mode (CRM);grid fault;high frequency;soft switching;three phase inverter;unbalanced grid;voltage sag},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9678085&isnumber=9714885


T. Li, Y. Li, X. Chen, S. Li and N. Liu, "Research on Comprehensive Active Current- Limiting Control Strategy Applied in Two-Port MMC-HVDC Transmission System," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 7925-7937, Dec. 2022, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2021.3072888.
Abstract: Aiming at the defect that the current-limiting strategy based on the modular multilevel converter (MMC)-high-voltage direct current (HVDC) system only focuses on the unilateral ac side or dc side, this article proposes a current-limiting strategy that is suitable for both ac-side ground fault and dc-side short-circuit fault. First, for the ground fault on the ac side, the outer loop controller with power state equation and the inner loop controller with passivity-based control (PBC) strategy are used to control it, and the genetic algorithm, which takes the absolute value of the difference between the reference current and the actual current as the fitness function, is used to fit the optimal injection damping parameters for the PBC method. Then, for the short-circuit fault on the dc side, the capacitor discharge duty ratio is introduced on the basis of the equivalent capacitance without considering the voltage drop, and its segmented control is combined with the current-limiting reactors to achieve current-limiting at different fault points. Finally, a two-port +500-kV HVDC transmission system was built on MATLAB/Simulink software, and the effectiveness of the current-limiting method proposed in this article was verified.
keywords: {Voltage control;Control systems;Circuit faults;Capacitors;Power electronics;Inductors;Damping;Capacitor discharge duty ratio;current-limiting;genetic algorithm (GA);modular multilevel converter (MMC)-high-voltage direct current (HVDC);passivity-based control (PBC);power state equation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9402846&isnumber=9970255


H. Gong, X. Wang, L. Harnefors, J. -P. Hasler and C. Danielsson, "Admittance-Dissipativity Analysis and Shaping of Dual-Sequence Current Control for VSCs," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 324-335, Feb. 2022, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2021.3067553.
Abstract: This article analyzes the admittance-dissipativity of dual-sequence current control for grid-connected voltage-source converters (VSCs). The output admittance model of dual-sequence current control is first developed in the stationary reference frame by using complex vectors. Impacts of digital filters used within current control and voltage-feedforward (VFF) control loops, and of the delay compensation at the fundamental frequency, are then evaluated. It is found that the cascaded use of sequence-decomposition filter (SDF) and the low-pass filter (LPF) in the VFF control loop adds a nondissipative region in the output admittance, and the fundamental-frequency delay-compensation further worsens the dissipativity. An analytical design method for the LPF is then developed to mitigate the nondissipative region, which lowers the instability risks and improves the stability robustness of dual-sequence current control under different grid conditions. Lastly, simulations and experimental results corroborate theoretical analyses.
keywords: {Current control;Power conversion;Converters;Admittance;Delays;Transfer functions;Stability analysis;Delay compensation;digital filter;dissipativity;sequence control;voltage feedforward (VFF)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9381879&isnumber=9701581


Y. Wang et al., "Implementation of Embedded Magnetic Encoder for Rotor Position Detection Based on Arbitrary Phase-Shift Phase-Lock Loop," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 69, no. 2, pp. 2033-2043, Feb. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2021.3062270.
Abstract: Rotor position is essential in control of permanent magnet synchronous motors (PMSMs). In terms of resolution, structural complexity, occupied volume, anti-interference ability, environmental adaptability, and cost, embedded magnetic encoder based on linear Halls owns strong competitiveness. When linear Hall sensors are selectively installed at stator slot openings in extremely compact scenario, signal phase-shift asymmetry between two or three Hall sensors is inevitable. Conventionally, prefilter synchronous reference frame-phase-locked loops exhibit excellent phase-lock ability at fixed frequency (50/60Hz), but become ill when frequency changes especially at zero frequency. In this article, a novel transformation matrix is derived to map the asymmetric phase-shift signals onto two-phase stationary coordinate system. Then, an arbitrary phase shift-phase-locked loop is formed by replacing Clark transformation with the proposed transformation matrix, which can accurately extract rotor position and speed information in a simple and effective way, avoiding the utilization of complex notch filter. Simulations in continuous domain based on MATLAB and experiments in discrete domain based on an 18-slot/20-pole prototyped PMSM both confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Sensors;Rotors;Filtering theory;Power harmonic filters;Magnetic sensors;Low-pass filters;Permanent magnet motors;Arbitrary phase shift-phase-locked loop (APS-PLL);embedded magnetic encoder;linear hall;permanent magnet synchronous motors (PMSMs);rotor position},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9369043&isnumber=9594638


S. Xie, Y. Sun, J. Lin, M. Su, X. Li and X. Zhang, "Resistance-Emulating Control Strategy for Three-Phase Voltage Source Rectifiers Under Unbalanced Grids," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 69, no. 2, pp. 1103-1113, Feb. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2021.3060640.
Abstract: In this article, a resistance-emulating control strategy without grid voltage sensors is proposed for three-phase voltage source rectifiers under unbalanced grid conditions. It consists of angle estimator, coordinate correction, resistance-emulating, common-mode resistance (CMR) and the differential-mode resistance (DMR) regulation, extended state observer, and other critical steps. In this scheme, the CMR regulates the average power, and the DMR controls the ripple power caused by the unbalanced supplies. Three different control objectives including constant active power, symmetrical input currents, and constant reactive power are achieved by regulating the DMR. Since the grid voltage sensors and the information of the grid-side circuit parameters are not required, the cost is reduced and the robustness and reliability of the scheme is improved. Experiments verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Voltage control;Observers;Resistance;Reactive power;Sensors;Impedance;Resistance-emulating;unbalanced conditions;voltage source rectifier (VSR)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9363540&isnumber=9594638


W. Zhang, Q. Ao, M. Zhong, Y. Fan and W. Meng, "Current Quality Enhancement of PV String Inverter under Unbalanced Fault in Distribution Grid," 2021 11th International Conference on Power and Energy Systems (ICPES), Shanghai, China, 2021, pp. 371-376, doi: 10.1109/ICPES53652.2021.9683897.Abstract: PV systems are increasingly connected to the power system, applying the increasing impact to the distribution grid, where single-phase sources and loads can lead to significant unbalance and cause significant interference to three-phase inverters. To ensure the proper operation of three-phase inverters, this paper studies the control system for string inverters under the unbalanced voltage and ensures the current quality. To control the positive sequence and negative sequence current simultaneously, a dual vector current controller is applied in this paper. The DC link voltage is controlled in the first stage. Besides, this paper uses a PI+R controller to reduce the second-order harmonic of DC link voltage. To verify the performance of these strategies, simulation results are provided. keywords: {Simulation;Interference;Power system harmonics;Harmonic analysis;Control systems;Inverters;Voltage control;PV grid-connected;unbalanced conditions;current control strategy;unbalanced voltage},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9683897&isnumber=9683793

U. Yadav, A. Gupta and R. K. Ahuja, "Comparison Analysis of Conventional RCC and Novel PRESH Controller in Three Phase GTSPPS," 2021 3rd International Conference on Electrical, Control and Instrumentation Engineering (ICECIE), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 2021, pp. 1-9, doi: 10.1109/ICECIE52348.2021.9664745.Abstract: The proposed research proposes the performance analysis of conventional RCC (Resonant Current Controller) and Novel PRESH (PRES+RESH) controller Interfaced with three phase GTSPPS (Grid Tied Solar Photovoltaic Power System) and its simulation on MATLAB. Presently, for eliminating the harmonic from three phase SPPS, various filters and controllers have already been proposed but it either resulted in increase of computational load or make the system bulky. The presented paper will discuss the performance analysis of two controller along with its design procedure. The Novel PRESH controller is helpful in mitigating the THD of three phase SPPS near to 1% and thus satisfying the IEEE standard 519 and 1547. Further, Novel PRESH controller can be incorporated when grid suffers from abnormal condition. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Resonant frequency;Harmonic analysis;Performance analysis;Voltage control;Phase locked loops;Power harmonic filters;SPPS;PRESH;PRES;RESH;THD},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9664745&isnumber=9664656

J. -S. Choi, S. -Y. Oh, D. -S. Cha and B. -S. Ko, "Establishment of DC Building in Connection with Distributed Power Source and Operation Strategy," 2021 24th International Conference on Electrical Machines and Systems (ICEMS), Gyeongju, Korea, Republic of, 2021, pp. 2349-2353, doi: 10.23919/ICEMS52562.2021.9634468.Abstract: This article presents the construction of DC building simulation site and its operation strategy. The DC building is composed of distributed power sources such as photovoltaic, fuel cell, redox flow battery, and V2G-capable EV charger, and DC appliances. The DC building operates as grid-connection mode and island mode, and the effectiveness of the operation strategy according to each scenario was verified through empirical data. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Buildings;Fuel cells;Batteries;DC building;DC microgrid;Distributed power source;energy management},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9634468&isnumber=9634161

K. A. Nour Al-Deen and H. A. Hussain, "Review of DC Offshore Wind Farm Topologies," 2021 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2021, pp. 53-60, doi: 10.1109/ECCE47101.2021.9595070.Abstract: Wind turbines are commonly installed offshore where the steadier and faster wind speed is located compared to onshore. Among other environmental reasons, higher wind speeds results in more extracted power which makes the offshore option preferable. In this setting, AC transmission to the shore has many drawbacks including high losses. For offshore wind farms, it turns out that High Voltage AC (HVAC) has another contender which could be far more viable and beneficial which is High Voltage DC (HVDC). This Paper presents a literature overview on the configurations of HVDC wind farms with an emphasis on a series connected wind farms as an alternative candidate configuration for offshore wind applications. keywords: {Wind speed;HVDC transmission;Layout;High-voltage techniques;Wind farms;Propagation losses;Wind turbines;Wind farms;HVDC transmission;DC-DC power converters;Literature review.},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9595070&isnumber=9594919

J. Ge et al., "Asymmetrical Voltage Support Control of Three- Phase Four-Wire Inverters with Zero Active Power Oscillation during Grid Faults," 2021 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2021, pp. 906-911, doi: 10.1109/ECCE47101.2021.9595752.Abstract: Supporting the grid voltage and suppressing the active power oscillation have recently become two major requirements for high penetration of distributed generations during asymmetrical faults. But they are rarely considered in the low-voltage microgrid including zero sequence voltage and current components. Therefore, this paper proposes an optimal voltage support control without active power oscillation in the four-wire inverter system, which also satisfies the constraints of maximum allowable peak current. Both the increase of positive sequence voltage, and the decrease of negative and zero sequence voltage can be well realized and optimized through the equivalent grid impedance. Then, the sum of zero sequence active power oscillation and the related oscillations caused by positive and negative sequence coupling is guaranteed to be zero. Finally, the validity of the proposed method is verified by the simulation and experimental results. keywords: {Couplings;Low voltage;Microgrids;Energy conversion;Inverters;Distributed power generation;Impedance;three-phase four-wire inverters;optimal voltage support;active power oscillation control;maximum allowable peak current;asymmetrical grid faults},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9595752&isnumber=9594919

P. Šimek, M. Bejvl and V. Valouch, "Semi-Flexible Power Control for Grid-Connected Converter," 2021 International Conference on Electrical Drives & Power Electronics (EDPE), Dubrovnik, Croatia, 2021, pp. 25-29, doi: 10.1109/EDPE53134.2021.9604048.Abstract: The formulas for the calculation of reference grid current components for the grid-connected converter are presented. The selection of the contribution of a negative voltage sequence to the formation of the reference current vector is possible. The current control is based on the GPCC (Generalized Predictive Current Control). The power responses to changes in power references and to grid failures are shown and discussed. The results of simulation and experimental validation are presented. The strategy is able to ensure that limit values of grid current magnitudes are not exceeded. keywords: {Current control;Reactive power;Voltage fluctuations;Power control;Power system stability;Power system harmonics;Prediction algorithms;unbalanced grid voltage;positive and negative sequence;instantaneous active and reactive power;grid disturbances;power ripple;generalized predictive current control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9604048&isnumber=9604045

J. Joshi, A. K. Swami, V. Jately and B. Azzopardi, "A Comprehensive Review of Control Strategies to Overcome Challenges During LVRT in PV Systems," in IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 121804-121834, 2021, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3109050.
Abstract: Due to the high penetration of grid-connected photovoltaic (GCPV) systems, the network operators are regularly updating the grid codes to ensure that the operation of GCPV systems will assist in maintaining grid stability. Among these, low-voltage-ride-through (LVRT) is an essential attribute of PV inverters that allows them to remain connected with the grid during short-term disturbances in the grid voltage. Hence, PV inverters are equipped with control strategies that secure their smooth operation through this ride-through period as per the specified grid code. However, during the injection of reactive power under LVRT condition, various challenges have been observed, such as inverter overcurrent, unbalance phase voltages at the point of common coupling (PCC), overvoltage in healthy phases, oscillations in active, reactive power and dc-link voltage, distortion in injected currents and poor dynamic response of the system. Several strategies are found in the literature to overcome these challenges associated with LVRT. This paper critically reviews the recent challenges and the associated strategies under LVRT conditions in GCPV inverters. The drawbacks associated with the conventional current control strategies are investigated in MATLAB/Simulink environment. The advanced LVRT control strategies are categorized and analyzed under different types of grid faults. The work categorizes the state-of-the-art LVRT techniques on the basis of the synchronization methods, current injection techniques and dc-link voltage control strategies. It is found that state-of-the-art control strategies like OVSS/OCCIDGS provides improved voltage support and current limitation, which results in smooth LVRT operation by injecting currents of enhanced power quality.
keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Reactive power;Power system stability;Phase locked loops;Current control;Stability criteria;Current reference generation;dc-link voltage control;grid-connected PV;low-voltage-ride-through;current limitation;voltage unbalance},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9525416&isnumber=9312710


R. M. Silva, C. V. Sousa and V. F. Mendes, "Active Power Saturation for Full-Scale Renewable Power Converters during Voltage Ride Through Operation," 2021 14th IEEE International Conference on Industry Applications (INDUSCON), São Paulo, Brazil, 2021, pp. 31-37, doi: 10.1109/INDUSCON51756.2021.9529450.Abstract: Modern grid codes require the injection of positive sequence reactive current during low voltage ride through operation. In addition, it is possible to mitigate others power quality issues during unbalanced voltage sags, but for this should flow negative sequence currents. Therefore, to meet the GC and perform ancillary services, it is necessary to reduce the active power production in order to avoid the converter overcurrent. The aim of this paper is to present a dynamic active power saturation, in accordance with the voltage ride through grid code requirements, which can also be applied to compensate different power quality issues over unbalanced voltage operation. The algorithm is evaluated using computational simulations of a 2(MW) power system converter. keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Codes;Voltage fluctuations;Heuristic algorithms;Simulation;Power system dynamics;Power quality;active power control;grid code;grid connected converters;voltage ride-through;voltage sag},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9529450&isnumber=9529354

I. Marzo, A. Sanchez-Ruiz, J. A. Barrena, G. Abad and I. Muguruza, "Power Balancing in Cascaded H-Bridge and Modular Multilevel Converters Under Unbalanced Operation: A Review," in IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 110525-110543, 2021, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3103337.
Abstract: Multilevel Voltage-Source Converters (VSC) based on modular structures are envisioned as a prominent alternative for grid and industry applications. Foremost among these are the Cascaded H-Bridge (CHB) and the Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC). In this context, depending on the application and the power conversion structure, unbalanced operating conditions can be asked to the converter. Previous investigations regarding the operation and the solutions for modular structures under unbalanced conditions have already addressed this topic, but information is dispersed over a wide number of sources. This paper identifies, classifies, and analyzes the intercluster active power balancing strategies for the adequate operation of the most commonly used modular structures in some typical unbalanced operating scenarios: the Static Synchronous Compensator (STATCOM) under unbalanced voltage and/or current conditions, the unequal power generation in large-scale photovoltaic (PV) power plants, and the uneven power distribution in a battery energy storage system (BESS). Each of the applications has been independently studied so as to provide a comprehensive analysis of the alternative techniques found in the specialized literature, clearly explaining their respective strengths and drawbacks. Several future challenges have been identified during the study, which will involve greater research effort in this key research topic.
keywords: {Multilevel converters;Power grids;Topology;Automatic voltage control;Batteries;Couplings;Bridge circuits;Battery energy storage system (BESS);cascaded H-bridge (CHB);modular multilevel converter (MMC);photovoltaic (PV);static synchronous compensator (STATCOM);unbalanced operation;multilevel voltage-source converter (VSC);zero-sequence injection},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9508988&isnumber=9312710


A. A. Aboelnaga and M. A. Azzouz, "Dual Stationary Frame Control of Inverter-based Resources for Reliable Phase Selection," 2021 IEEE 19th International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN), Palma de Mallorca, Spain, 2021, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/INDIN45523.2021.9557510.Abstract: Phase selection is a significant protection element, which determines faulty phase(s). However, commercial phase selection methods (PSMs) are susceptible to failure in the presence of inverter-interfaced resources (IBRs) because their fault currents possess different characteristics than conventional generation sources. This paper develops a dual current controller (DCC) in the stationary frame to make the traditional current-angle-based PSM operate correctly at the relay location without frame transformation. First, the fault type is determined at the IBR. Then, the reference angle of the negative-sequence current is determined to achieve the current-angle-based PSM requirements. Subsequently, the negative-sequence current reference in the stationary frame is determined according to its current reference angle and its maximum current limit. Besides, the positive-sequence current is determined based on the active and reactive current references. Lastly, the sinusoidal reference currents are tracked accurately using a proportional-resonant (PR) control. Comprehensive time-domain simulations are used to validate the accuracy of the proposed DCC under different fault conditions. keywords: {Simulation;Conferences;Bandwidth;Synchronous generators;Reliability;Time-domain analysis;Relays;Phase selection;dual current control;fault resilience;fault type identification},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9557510&isnumber=9557353

S. Xu, Y. Xue and L. Chang, "Review of Power System Support Functions for Inverter-Based Distributed Energy Resources- Standards, Control Algorithms, and Trends," in IEEE Open Journal of Power Electronics, vol. 2, pp. 88-105, 2021, doi: 10.1109/OJPEL.2021.3056627.
Abstract: Penetration of renewable energy in power systems has been increasing in the past decades in response to increased global electricity demand and concerns for the environment. Distributed energy resources (DERs) based on renewables have experienced rapid growth thanks to the incentive programs and broad-based participation. With the growing prevalence of DERs, the risk of grid instability and vulnerability increases due to the intermittent nature of renewable energy. At the same time, the voltage and frequency deviation problems emerge more often when the reverse power flow occurs under supply-demand imbalance in distributed power systems. Standards and grid codes have been issued for DER inverters to interconnect with the distribution grid. The updated standard and grid codes expect DERs to provide a variety of power system support functions in order to incorporate higher DER penetration and to maximize DER value to the grid. This paper provides an overview of the power system support functions from renewable DER inverters, which are categorized as: voltage regulation by active/reactive power control, frequency regulation by active power control, voltage ride-through, and frequency ride-through. The benefits and drawbacks of each algorithm are presented and compared with its predecessor, manifesting the logic in the evolution of the algorithms.
keywords: {Power systems;Power system stability;Standards;Voltage control;Inverters;Renewable energy sources;Interoperability;Distributed energy resources (DERs);inverters;power system support functions;reactive power control;voltage ride-through},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9345378&isnumber=9343742


J. Ge, Z. Shuai, C. Tu, A. Luo and Z. J. Shen, "Flexible Control Strategy for Enhancing Power Injection Capability of Three-Phase Four-Wire Inverter During Asymmetrical Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 36, no. 8, pp. 9592-9608, Aug. 2021, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2021.3054827.
Abstract: A three-phase four-wire inverter is highly suitable for low-voltage distributed grids owing to its zero sequence control; however, essential aspects of grid-following inverters during faults, such as the power oscillation control flexibility and power injection capability, are rarely discussed in detail. Thus, by introducing zero sequence instantaneous power into a four-wire system, this article proposes a flexible control strategy that enhances the power injection capability of the inverter in the photovoltaic generation system during asymmetrical grid faults. First, a generalized reference current generation with flexible control of positive, negative, zero sequence current (FPNZSC), and power oscillations is presented. Second, a maximum allowable power injection (MAPI) algorithm based on the actual value constraints of power oscillations and peak current is presented according to the requirement. The proposed MAPI-FPNZSC strategy further extends the existing fault ride through methods in three-wire inverter systems, which is also suitable for single line-to-ground and double line-to-ground faults and can be easily realized in the natural or stationary frame. The effectiveness of the proposed strategy is verified by comparing the provided three typical objectives with the traditional method, and tested in a real-time hardware-in-the loop experimental platform.
keywords: {Inverters;Oscillators;Voltage control;Reactive power;Low voltage;Power system stability;Circuit faults;Asymmetrical grid faults;flexible control;peak current;power injection capability;power oscillations;three-phase four-wire inverter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9336274&isnumber=9429189


J. Liu, C. Zhao and Z. Xie, "Power and Current Limiting Control of Wind Turbines Based on PMSG Under Unbalanced Grid Voltage," in IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 9873-9883, 2021, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3049839.
Abstract: Unbalanced grid voltage sags are the severe challenge for wind power generation system which connected to the grid successfully. The dc bus voltage and output power will fluctuate under unbalanced grid voltage. Moreover, the voltage sags will lead to the increase of peak current, which will bring potential safety hazards to the operation of wind power system. This paper proposes a simple current limiting control scheme without auxiliary equipment, which based on the detailed analysis of the excessive peak current. In this scheme, the machine side converter (MSC) controller adjusts the electromagnetic power according to the power transmitted to the grid by the grid side converter (GSC). Meanwhile, it converts the unbalanced power on the dc-link into the rotor kinetic energy, avoiding the dc-link overvoltage. The GSC controller can not only ensure that the three-phase inverter currents are in the maximum safe range that the converters can bear, but also provide reactive power support for the grid. Furthermore, the fluctuations on dc bus voltage and output power can be eliminated effectively by using the GSC controller. The feasibility of the proposed scheme and the superiority over the traditional control schemes have been verified by simulations under different types of unbalanced voltage.
keywords: {Voltage control;Limiting;Fluctuations;Wind turbines;Wind power generation;Rotors;Unbalanced grid voltage;peak current;current limiting control;rotor kinetic energy;reactive power support},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9316689&isnumber=9312710


A. Charalambous, L. Hadjidemetriou, E. Kyriakides and M. M. Polycarpou, "A Coordinated Voltage–Frequency Support Scheme for Storage Systems Connected to Distribution Grids," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 36, no. 7, pp. 8464-8475, July 2021, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2020.3046030.
Abstract: Power electronics converters are utilized for interconnecting distributed energy storage systems into the grid. These converters can support the stability of the power system under abnormal grid conditions. In this article, a new coordinated voltage-frequency support strategy is proposed for energy storage systems considering the reactance-to-resistance ratio of the grid impedance. Unlike conventional support schemes for transmission grids, where voltage and frequency support is decoupled, the proposed strategy considers the coupling between voltage and frequency due to the resistive characteristics of the grid impedance in low-voltage distribution grids. An advanced frequency support scheme is also developed considering both droop-based frequency support and virtual inertia control for improving frequency stability. The proposed strategy ensures a fair compensation between voltage and frequency support by utilizing an adaptive gain that is calculated online according to the short-circuit fault characteristics. Simulations and experimental tests are carried out using a laboratory setup to validate the proposed strategy.
keywords: {Voltage control;Frequency control;Power system stability;Impedance;Inverters;Energy storage;Oscillators;Control of power electronics;distribution grids;energy storage;fault ride-through;flywheel;frequency–voltage support},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9301265&isnumber=9371270


L. Ji et al., "A Multi-Objective Control Strategy for Three Phase Grid-Connected Inverter During Unbalanced Voltage Sag," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 36, no. 4, pp. 2490-2500, Aug. 2021, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2020.3025158.
Abstract: This paper presents a new multi-objective control strategy for inverter-interfaced distributed generation (IIDG) to ensure its safe and continuous operation under unbalanced voltage sags. The proposed control strategy can effectively improve the low voltage ride through (LVRT) capability, reduce active power oscillations, and limit overcurrent simultaneously, which are marked as the most important control objectives of IIDG during unbalanced voltage sags. The advanced voltage support scheme, which utilizes positive sequence component, is firstly proposed to maximize the LVRT capability of IIDG during unbalanced voltage sags. Then, to ensure the safety of IIDG, the active power oscillation suppression and current limitation algorithm are designed individually. Based on the control algorithms of such objectives, the multi-objective control method, including scenario classification and reference current determination, is then presented to achieve such three objectives under various system conditions simultaneously. Finally, case studies and evaluations based on MATLAB/Simulink are carried out to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Inverters;Power quality;Voltage control;Oscillators;Safety;Power control;Low voltage;Active power oscillation suppression;current limitation;inverter interfaced distributed generation;low voltage ride through;multi-objective control;voltage sag;voltage support},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9200671&isnumber=9496059


S. Gao, H. Zhao, Y. Gui, D. Zhou, V. Terzija and F. Blaabjerg, "A Novel Direct Power Control for DFIG With Parallel Compensator Under Unbalanced Grid Condition," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 68, no. 10, pp. 9607-9618, Oct. 2021, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2020.3022495.
Abstract: This article presents a voltage-modulated direct power control (VM-DPC) with an additional parallel compensator for the doubly fed induction generator under unbalanced grid conditions. The proposed method not only guarantees a satisfying steady-state performance but provides also a regulating property of the negative-sequence output currents through designed negative-sequence parallel compensator. It can provide symmetrical stator currents and suppress the ripples in both active and reactive powers under unbalanced grid conditions. The performance of the proposed method are verified by comparing it with three different control strategies in simulations carried out in MATLAB/Simulink SimScape Power System. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method is evaluated in an experimental prototype, which proves the proposed VM-DPC with the additional compensator has a satisfactory steady-state performance and a fast power transient response under unbalanced grid conditions.
keywords: {Doubly fed induction generators;Rotors;Voltage control;Stator windings;Reactive power;Steady-state;Direct power control (DPC);doubly fed induction generator (DFIG);rotor side converter (RSC);unbalanced voltage condition},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9198079&isnumber=9469512


S. Golestan, J. M. Guerrero, J. C. Vasquez, A. M. Abusorrah and Y. Al-Turki, "Harmonic Linearization and Investigation of Three-Phase Parallel-Structured Signal Decomposition Algorithms in Grid-Connected Applications," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 36, no. 4, pp. 4198-4213, April 2021, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2020.3021723.
Abstract: In practice, because of different factors, the supply voltage (especially in the distribution level) almost always has some degrees of imbalance and harmonic pollution. With increasing the level of these power quality issues in recent years, their monitoring and compensation using custom power devices have received much attention. In addition, modern power converter based renewable energy sources are expected to provide some ancillary services to mitigate these power quality issues. These tasks and requirements often involve using a signal processing tool for the online detection of the fundamental sequence components and harmonics of the voltage and/or current signals. The typical choice for this purpose is the discrete Fourier transform as it offers a fast computational speed. It, however, may not be a very attractive solution for applications where the selective extraction of a few frequency components is required as it demands a high computational effort. In such scenarios, using time-domain signal decomposition algorithms is more desirable. Generally speaking, these algorithms are nonlinear feedback control systems, which include two or more dynamically interactive frequency-adaptive filters tuned to concerned frequency components. The complex structure of these algorithms, however, makes them complicated to analyze, especially for those who are not experienced in this field. This article aims to address this difficulty by developing harmonic models for these algorithms and investigating them. To this end, three case studies are considered. Through a harmonic linearization procedure, developing harmonic models for them is shown. The accuracy of these models is then investigated, and performing the harmonic stability analysis using them is demonstrated.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Signal processing algorithms;Heuristic algorithms;Signal resolution;Power system stability;Time-domain analysis;Frequency-locked loop (FLL);harmonics;phase-locked loop (PLL);reduced-order generalized integrator (ROGI);second-order generalized integrator (SOGI);signal decomposition;synchronization;three-phase systems;voltage imbalance},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9186610&isnumber=9277726


T. Li, Y. Li, X. Chen, S. Li and W. Zhang, "Research on AC Microgrid With Current-Limiting Ability Using Power-State Equation and Improved Lyapunov-Function Method," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 7306-7319, Dec. 2021, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2020.3013230.
Abstract: With the occurrence of the major blackouts in “Australia 9·28” and the “U.K. 8·9,” the technical bottlenecks in the power generation system with a high proportion of renewable energy have attracted more and more attention. Based on this background, this article studies a control method that is suitable for AC microgrid with strong current-limiting ability. First, the outer loop controller adopts the method of power-state equation based on PI control to achieve accurate tracking of the reference power. Furthermore, in order to make the fault current having a lower asymmetry degree and smaller amplitude, the outer loop controller only considers the positive-sequence components of the voltage and adds twice rated current limiter. Second, the inner loop controller adopts an improved Lyapunov-function method with antiparametric disturbance ability to track the reference inductance current. By selecting the optimal controller gains, the current harmonics and amplitudes can meet the desired requirements. Finally, the simulation builds a microgrid with four distributed generators (DGs) in MATLAB/Simulink and tests the effectiveness of the proposed current-limiting method.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Fault currents;Voltage control;Microgrids;Radio frequency;Generators;Control systems;AC microgrid;current-limiting ability;improved Lyapunov-function method;power-state equation method},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9153912&isnumber=9629383


H. Tian and Y. Li, "Virtual Resistor Based Second-Order Ripple Sharing Control for Distributed Bidirectional DC–DC Converters in Hybrid AC–DC Microgrid," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 2258-2269, Feb. 2021, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2020.3006072.
Abstract: The hybrid ac-dc microgrid, consisting of ac subgrid and dc subgrid, is a promising structure to interconnect ac and dc systems to provide high quality and reliable electric energy. However, in single-phase microgrid or unbalanced three-phase microgrid, second-order ripples of the dc subgrid can lead to significant power quality issues. The ripple mitigation function can be added to existing bidirectional dc-dc converters (BDCs) or dc active power filters. Considering these ripple sources can be distributed in the dc subgrid, it is essential to develop ripple mitigation control schemes for distributed BDCs. In this article, a virtual resistor based ripple mitigation strategy is proposed. Autonomous accurate ripple current sharing can be achieved for BDCs installed closely, enabling flexible parallel of ripple mitigation converters. A comprehensive parameter design method is developed to ensure the accurate sharing for closely installed BDCs. For dc subgrid with significant line impedance, the control scheme provides the opportunity for supervisory control to further enhance ripple current sharing and mitigation performance. Both simulation and experimental results validate that the control method and the parameter design method are effective.
keywords: {Resistors;Harmonic analysis;DC-DC power converters;Microgrids;Capacitors;Impedance;Power harmonic filters;Control design;dc–dc power converters;decentralized control;power harmonics filters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9130044&isnumber=9207773


W. Liu, F. Blaabjerg, D. Zhou and S. -F. Chou, "Modified Instantaneous Power Control With Phase Compensation and Current-Limited Function Under Unbalanced Grid Faults," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 2896-2906, June 2021, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2020.2984475.
Abstract: In distributed generation systems, power quality is one of the main concerns during short-term unbalanced grid voltage faults. However, for the most common three-phase three-wire grid-connected inverter-based power systems, there may be a tradeoff between power oscillations and current harmonics during the unbalanced grid fault ride-through control, which has a crucial impact on the installed inverters for different applications. In this article, a modified instantaneous power control-based voltage phase compensation control strategy is proposed to enhance the inverter current quality, while, at the same time, mitigating the active/reactive instantaneous power oscillations. Moreover, a simplified peak current-limited control strategy is developed to improve the reliability of the grid-connected system, and it does not need the extraction of the grid voltage and/or current fundamental positive/negative sequence components, which significantly reduce the computation burden. Finally, the experimental tests based on dSPACE-DS1007 and MATLAB/Simulink are carried out to verify the effectiveness of the proposed strategy.
keywords: {Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Power quality;Voltage control;Oscillators;Inverter;reliability;power quality;unbalanced grid voltage fault},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9050768&isnumber=9444897


T. Li, Y. Li, S. Li and W. Zhang, "Research on Current-Limiting Control Strategy Suitable for Ground Faults in AC Microgrid," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 1736-1750, April 2021, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2020.2983726.
Abstract: On August 9, 2019, a blackout event with significant impacts occurred in the British power grid (BPG). The technical report submitted by the BPG points out that the accident originated from multiple independent and concurrent events, resulting in a sudden power shortage, which exceeded the fortification requirements of the relevant standards. This incident has led us to reflect on some of the technical bottlenecks that exist in the high-proportion renewable energy system, such as frequency oscillations, security defense of large power grid, current-limiting, and so on. Based on this background, this article studies a strong current-limiting control system suitable for ground faults in ac microgrid, which can limit the fault current to less than twice the rated current so that the distributed generators can go through multiple faults ride-through without offline operation. Meanwhile, this control system does not need to switch the reference inductance current between normal and faults and can realize the smaller current harmonics and lower asymmetry amplitudes in the two states. Simulation and experiment show that the method proposed in this article can adapt to a variety of ground faults.
keywords: {Power harmonic filters;Filtering theory;Voltage control;Fault currents;Inverters;Phase locked loops;Mathematical model;Current limiting;ground faults;improved passivity-based control (IPBC);instantaneous power theory;quasi-PR controller},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9049416&isnumber=9378756


B. Wu, Y. Chen and L. Xiong, "Negative Sequence Component Compensation Strategy of Grid-side Inverters Without PLL," 2020 IEEE 9th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC2020-ECCE Asia), Nanjing, China, 2020, pp. 2740-2743, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC-ECCEAsia48364.2020.9368137.Abstract: In grid-connected power generation system, fast and accurate phase synchronization detection is the prerequisite of effective control. The influence of unbalanced voltage on the three-phase inverter with conventional PLL is analyzed. When the grid voltage is unbalanced, the detection of the voltage and the calculation of the phase-locked angle will produce errors, which will affect the control accuracy of the inverter. Therefore, a control strategy without PLL is proposed and a mathematical model is established to verify its feasibility. The control strategy separates the positive sequence components of the grid voltage in the dq coordinate system. By comparing the control without PLL with the conventional PLL, the simulation shows that the control strategy without PLL can quickly and accurately separate the positive sequence components from the unbalanced power grid voltage and has a better dynamic response time. keywords: {Power system dynamics;Inverters;Power grids;Mathematical model;Time factors;Phase locked loops;Voltage control;Unbalanced grid;Without PLL;Negative sequence current;Grid tied inverter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9368137&isnumber=9367628

W. Liu, D. Zhou and F. Blaabjerg, "Enhanced Power Quality Control for a Grid-Connected Converter under Unbalanced and Distorted Grid Voltage," 2020 IEEE 9th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC2020-ECCE Asia), Nanjing, China, 2020, pp. 1676-1681, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC-ECCEAsia48364.2020.9367806.Abstract: Power electronics converter, which serves as an interface between the renewable energy resources and power grid, should have a fault ride through (FRT) capability to remain connected to the grid under short-term disturbances and grid voltage faults. Also, a certain amount of instantaneous reactive power is needed to support the grid voltage recovery. In this paper, a novel FRT control algorithm is proposed to support the voltage components at the point of common coupling and limit the total harmonic distortion of the compensated current, which improves the power quality of the grid-connected converter. The proposed method is achieved by controlling the positive and negative sequence fundamental current of the converter as well as its harmonic components under the unbalanced and distorted grid voltage faults. MATLAB/Simulink simulation results are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. keywords: {Total harmonic distortion;Renewable energy sources;Simulation;Power quality;Harmonic analysis;Power electronics;Voltage control;Power Electronics Converter;Power Quality Control;Unbalanced Grid Faults;Harmonic Compensation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9367806&isnumber=9367628

H. Gong and X. Wang, "Impacts of Digital Filters on Admittance Dissipativity of Sequence Current Control for VSCs," 2020 IEEE 21st Workshop on Control and Modeling for Power Electronics (COMPEL), Aalborg, Denmark, 2020, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/COMPEL49091.2020.9265667.Abstract: This paper analyzes the impacts of digital filters on the admittance dissipativity of dual-sequence current control for grid-connected voltage-source converters (VSCs). The output admittance model of VSC is first derived in the aβ-frame with complex vectors, and then the frequency-domain dissipativity theory is employed to analyze the dynamic impacts of digital filters, revealing that the cascaded use of sequence-decomposition filter (SDF) and low-pass filter (LPF) in the voltage-feedforward (VFF) tends to induce a nondissipative region. Then, an analytical design method for the LPF is developed for mitigating the non-dissipative region. Lastly, the simulation and experiment results verify the accuracy of the theoretical analysis. keywords: {Power conversion;Converters;Admittance;Current control;Transfer functions;Low-pass filters;Digital filters;Digital filter;dissipativity;sequence control;voltage feed-forward},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9265667&isnumber=9265640

S. Pradhan, B. Singh and B. K. Panigrahi, "A Reactive Power Supportive PV Based Grid Tied Distributed System Meeting Ancillary Objectives," 2020 IEEE 5th International Conference on Computing Communication and Automation (ICCCA), Greater Noida, India, 2020, pp. 646-651, doi: 10.1109/ICCCA49541.2020.9250786.Abstract: Disconnection of photovoltaic (PV) farm from the grid, is the common practice on the occurrence of grid faults. Obeying the modern updated grid codes, developing a control algorithm for distributed converters for riding through the low voltage condition and continuing renewable power injection to the grid are the core objective of this paper. Along with the reactive power support, ancillary objectives such as stabilization of DC link voltage, supply of harmonics free balanced positive sequence grid currents synchronized with grid under the presence of nonlinear loads, reactive power compensation, power factor correction and flow of active power from solar PV array to grid are met using a cross feedback filter based control structure. Moreover, safe operation of the converter is assured by restraining the converter current to a safe limit. The developed control logic is simulated using MATLAB software tool and results are presented for verification. keywords: {Reactive power;Power factor correction;Harmonic analysis;Synchronization;Voltage control;Software tools;Power harmonic filters;Solar Power Generating System;Power Quality;Low Voltage Ride Through},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9250786&isnumber=9250710

W. Choi, K. Jung and B. Sarlioglu, "Power Control of Hybrid Grid-Connected Inverter to Improve Power Quality," 2020 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Detroit, MI, USA, 2020, pp. 3741-3745, doi: 10.1109/ECCE44975.2020.9235627.Abstract: Hybrid grid-connected inverter (GCI), also called reconfigurable GCI or shunt-series-switched GCI, can be connected in shunt or series to the grid to improve power quality of the grid. Power control capability of GCI is a key element to apply the concept of hybrid GCI to different kinds of distributed energy resources. Different power control strategies including zero power injection, minimum apparent power injection, and zero oscillating power injection are presented in shunt and series mode of hybrid GCI by adjusting reference voltage. Mathematically derived equations of the optimal phase angle are presented for different strategies. Experimental results of 10kW of hybrid GCI prototype are also presented that hybrid GCI compensates 15% of voltage swell in series mode when zero reactive power injection strategy is applied. keywords: {Voltage control;Hybrid power systems;Power quality;Power control;Inverters;Reactive power;Voltage fluctuations;grid-connected inverter;hybrid inverter;power control;power quality;voltage regulation;voltage sag;voltage swell;voltage unbalance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9235627&isnumber=9235325

G. Son, Z. Huang, Q. Li and F. C. Lee, "Control Technique for High-Frequency Soft-Switching Three-Phase Inverter Under Grid Fault Condition," 2020 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Detroit, MI, USA, 2020, pp. 5000-5006, doi: 10.1109/ECCE44975.2020.9236141.Abstract: This paper presents a control method for three-phase inverter under grid fault condition based on a novel critical conduction mode (CRM)-based soft-switching modulation. In the soft-switching modulation, one phase is clamped to dc bus, other two phases operate in CRM and discontinuous conduction mode (DCM), respectively. The soft-switching technique with silicon carbide (SiC) power devices allows the inverter to operate at hundreds of kHz with high efficiency by reducing switching loss. In order to extend the modulation scheme to more practical cases, behavior of the inverter under grid fault conditions, specifically voltage sag, is investigated. During voltage sag, the grid voltage becomes unbalanced requiring unbalanced ac current reference for the avoidance of output active power oscillation. With the unbalanced grid voltage and ac current reference, continuous conduction mode (CCM) operation occurs where DCM operation is intended leading to high turn-on loss. To eliminate the CCM operation and reduce the turn-on loss, an improved modulation technique is proposed by using off-time extension concept in CRM phase. In this paper, how the CCM operation appears under grid fault condition, and details of the proposed control are discussed. Performance of the proposed control method is validated experimentally with SiC-based three -phase inverter laboratory prototype. keywords: {Customer relationship management;Inverters;Inductors;Modulation;Power quality;Switching frequency;Switches},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9236141&isnumber=9235325

H. Chaves and M. L. Heldwein, "Grid-Tied Three-Phase Inverter Current Control Considering Low Voltage Ride Through Capability: A Comparison between Stationary and Synchronous Reference Frames," 2020 IEEE 11th International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Dubrovnik, Croatia, 2020, pp. 57-62, doi: 10.1109/PEDG48541.2020.9244479.Abstract: This work presents a study and comparison of current control for three-phase grid connected voltage inverters to cope with low voltage ride through requirements. A comparison between current control loops implemented employing synchronous and stationary frames is presented and their performances are analyzed during voltage sags. Current reference generation method is discussed; under which it is possible to minimize active power oscillations during a voltage sag or inject balanced currents even in asymmetric sags. The control system developed in this work is implemented in a DSC and demonstrated operating in a 5-kW three-phase voltage inverter with an LCL filter. Experimental results are presented to validate the analyzes. keywords: {Current control;Voltage fluctuations;Power quality;Harmonic analysis;Inverters;Voltage control;Power harmonic filters;Three-phase voltage inverter;low voltage ride through;current control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9244479&isnumber=9244304

E. Avdiaj, J. Are Suul, S. D'Arco and L. Piegari, "A Current Controlled Virtual Synchronous Machine Adapted for Operation under Unbalanced Conditions," 2020 9th International Conference on Renewable Energy Research and Application (ICRERA), Glasgow, UK, 2020, pp. 263-270, doi: 10.1109/ICRERA49962.2020.9242657.Abstract: This paper presents a comprehensive evaluation of control strategies for operation of a Virtual Synchronous Machine (VSM) under unbalanced conditions in both grid-connected and islanded mode. The basis for the evaluation is a Current Controlled VSM where a quasi-stationary virtual impedance emulates a simplified positive sequence electrical model of a synchronous machine. It is shown how three general strategies can be selected for controlling the negative sequence currents: 1) calculation of the negative sequence current references according to the desired active and reactive power flow characteristics, 2) applying a negative sequence virtual impedance resulting in unbalanced currents as in the steady-state response of a synchronous machine, or 3) operation with a negative sequence voltage controller for eliminating unbalances in the locally measured voltages. For the first approach, three objectives for shaping the power flow characteristics can be selected: I) balanced three-phase currents, II) constant instantaneous active power flow, or III) constant instantaneous reactive power flow. Comprehensive simulation results are presented to evaluate the performance and applicability under grid connected and islanded operation. The results demonstrate how utilization of the negative sequence currents to control the power flow characteristics is only applicable for grid connected operation, while the other two approaches can be utilized in both islanded and grid-connected modes. However, closed loop control for balancing the local voltages depends on a high equivalent grid impedance and is not suitable for operation in strong grid conditions. keywords: {Voltage measurement;Simulation;Steady-state;Impedance;Synchronous machines;Voltage control;Load flow;Grid connected VSCs;Islanded Power Systems;Unbalanced Grids;Virtual Synchronous Machines},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9242657&isnumber=9242655

Z. Li, J. Lu, J. Liu, Y. Zhu and Q. He, "Resistance Selection and Control Strategy Considering the Coordination of Protection Performance and Low Voltage Ride Through of a Large-Scale Photovoltaic Power Station," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 143746-143758, 2020, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3014232.
Abstract: Neutral grounding through resistance is widely applied in large-scale centralized grid-connected photovoltaic power stations (PVPS), while protection measures, which are supposed to cut off the single-phase grounding fault of the collection system quickly, are required according to the grid code. Analyses on the coordination between protection performances and low voltage ride through (LVRT) are missing in current researches. Hence there could be a risk that large-scale photovoltaic units may disconnect from the grid as a result of a mismatch between the protection and LVRT. In view of the above, this paper makes contributions in two aspects. Firstly, this paper proposes a scheme on neutral point resistance selection, which is to analyze the influences on protection performances by the fault characteristics of the single-phase grounding fault of the PVPS collection system in different test environments, and then to quantify the speed and the selectivity of the zero-sequence current protection performance as assessment indexes, as required in the coordination between protection performances and LVRT, and in the coordination between protection performances of tie lines and collector lines of the collection system, and finally to select neutral point resistance based on the indexes. Secondly, this paper proposes a comprehensive control strategy on the large-scale PVPS, which can effectively improve the assessment indexes mentioned above of the protection under different active power production scenarios. Finally, a simulation will be conducted to verify the correctness and the feasibility of the resistance selection scheme and the control strategy proposed in this paper.
keywords: {Resistance;Grounding;Circuit faults;Indexes;Photovoltaic systems;Large-scale photovoltaic power station;neutral grounding resistance;low voltage ride through control strategy;protection performance index},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9157859&isnumber=8948470


F. Casado-Machado, J. L. Martinez-Ramos, M. Barragán-Villarejo, J. M. Maza-Ortega and J. A. Rosendo-Macías, "Reduced Reference Frame Transform: Deconstructing Three-Phase Four-Wire Systems," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 143021-143032, 2020, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3012510.
Abstract: This paper proposes a new reference frame, namely Reduced Reference Frame (RRF), specially suited for unbalanced three–phase four–wire systems which improves the performance of the classical Fortescue, Clarke and Park transformations. The RRF transfomation allows to represent any unbalanced three–phase sinusoidal magnitude with just two components even if the zero–sequence component is present. For doing so, the RRF transformation takes into account that the abc space–vector trajectory of the transformed three–phase sinusoidal magnitude is always within a plane. The geometric properties of this trajectory are considered for outlining a general classification of the transformation depending on the input voltages and an adequate reference frame within the plane. Then, a step–by–step procedure for computing the transformation matrix is detailed. Once the voltages and currents are transformed into the RRF, it is proposed a power theory which allows to compute the instantaneous active and reactive powers. The paper includes two simulations and an experimental validation through a real–time application to highlight the benefits of the proposal. The paper closes with the main conclusions and some future research lines where this transformation can be applied.
keywords: {Transforms;Trajectory;Reactive power;Computational modeling;Phase locked loops;Algebra;Coordinate transformation;reference frame;three–phase four–wire systems;unbalanced power systems},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9151161&isnumber=8948470


J. A. Sa'ed, D. Curto, S. Favuzza, R. Musca, M. N. Navia and G. Zizzo, "A Simulation Analysis of VSM Control for RES plants in a Small Mediterranean Island," 2020 IEEE International Conference on Environment and Electrical Engineering and 2020 IEEE Industrial and Commercial Power Systems Europe (EEEIC / I&CPS Europe), Madrid, Spain, 2020, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/EEEIC/ICPSEurope49358.2020.9160501.Abstract: The paper presents an application of Virtual Synchronous Machine control for managing inverter-interfaced renewable energy sources in a small Mediterranean island not supplied by the main grid. In the proposed analysis, the island's renewables-based generators area assumed interfaced to the grid by voltage source converters with a swing controller and a vector-current controller with two different options for the reference current for regulating the voltage at the Point of Common Coupling and the active power output. The system, modeled in PScad environment, allows to verify the response of the renewables-based generators with VSM control in the presence of a fault in the grid. keywords: {Mathematical model;Voltage control;Power system stability;Generators;Transfer functions;Production;Reactive power;Renewable Energy;Virtual Synchronous Machines;Isolated Systems;Voltage Source Converter;Current Reference;Current Vector Control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9160501&isnumber=9160488

X. Su, Z. Wang, L. Ding and C. Jia, "Voltage Support Control Strategy of PMSG Wind Turbines During Unbalanced Grid Fault," 2020 5th Asia Conference on Power and Electrical Engineering (ACPEE), Chengdu, China, 2020, pp. 678-683, doi: 10.1109/ACPEE48638.2020.9136248.Abstract: This paper highlights the necessity of supporting the point of common coupling (PCC) voltage by the fully rated converter of permanent magnet synchronous generator (PMSG) type wind turbines under unbalanced voltage sags. According to the positive and negative sequence reactive currents injected into the grid by the grid side converter (GSC) are related to the voltage of each phase at PCC during asymmetric grid faults, a voltage support control strategy is proposed. The proposed method can achieve the purpose of supporting the PCC voltage of the grid and enhance the asymmetric ride-through capability of the wind turbine. And it can retain the sequence component characteristics of the current in the event of asymmetrical faults in the grid. The effect of different control options has been demonstrated using simulation on a test network and conclusion deduced. keywords: {Short-circuit currents;Power quality;Power system stability;Synchronous generators;Power grids;Permanent magnets;Wind turbines;voltage support control;wind turbines;negative sequence current injection;unbalanced faults},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9136248&isnumber=9136167

H. Sekhavatmanesh, J. Rodrigues, C. L. Moreira, J. A. P. Lopes and R. Cherkaoui, "Optimal Load Restoration in Active Distribution Networks Complying With Starting Transients of Induction Motors," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 11, no. 5, pp. 3957-3969, Sept. 2020, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2020.2985783.
Abstract: Large horsepower induction motors play a critical role as industrial drives in production facilities. The operational safety of distribution networks during the starting transients of these motor loads is a critical concern for the operators. In this paper, an analytical and convex optimization model is derived representing the starting transients of the induction motor in a semi-static fashion. This model is used to find the optimal energization sequence of different loads (static and motor loads) following an outage in a distribution network. The optimization problem includes the optimal control of the converter-based DGs and autotransformers that are used for the induction motor starting. These models together with the semi-static model of the induction motor are integrated into a relaxed power flow formulation resulting in a Mixed-Integer Second Order Cone Programming (SOCP) problem. This formulation represents the transient operational limits that are imposed by different protection devices both in the motor side and network side. The functionality of the proposed optimization problem is evaluated in the case of a large-scale test study and under different simulation scenarios. The feasibility and accuracy of the optimization results are validated using I) off-line time-domain simulations, and II) a Power Hardware-In-the-Loop experiment.
keywords: {Induction motors;Load modeling;Transient analysis;Acceleration;Torque;Optimization;Resistance;Autotransformer;convex optimization;distribution network;DG converter set points;induction motor starting;load energization sequence;relaxed power flow formulation;semi-static model},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9057506&isnumber=9172159


Z. Yang, K. Jia, Y. Fang, Z. Zhu, B. Yang and T. Bi, "High-Frequency Fault Component-Based Distance Protection for Large Renewable Power Plants," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 35, no. 10, pp. 10352-10362, Oct. 2020, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2020.2978266.
Abstract: Renewable energy sources (RESs) are directly or indirectly connected to the grid through power electronic devices and the short-circuit current exhibits characteristics such as limited amplitude, nonpower frequency, and controlled phase angle, which may lead to the malfunction of the RES-side distance protection on the transmission line. In order to solve this problem, a distance protection method based on the high-frequency fault component is proposed. The voltage drop caused by the fault has a full frequency component and this can be extracted by wavelet transform. After that, the high-frequency impedance models of the inverter-interfaced renewable energy generator and the doubly-fed induction generator are established and the frequency selection principle that makes them have the stable phase angle is determined. On this basis, the internal and external faults can be determined by comparing the magnitude of high-frequency operating voltage and high-frequency voltage at the fault point. This method eliminates the influence of frequency offset and weak feed of RESs using high-frequency signals generated by voltage drops at the fault point and can tolerate some noise. At the same time, due to the larger radius of impedance circle at the high-frequency range, this method has a strong ability to withstand the fault resistance. The experimental results and the field-testing data verify the effectiveness of the method.
keywords: {Impedance;Circuit faults;Power transmission lines;Doubly fed induction generators;Resistance;Integrated circuit modeling;Distance protection;high-frequency fault component;renewable energy sources (RESs);transmission line},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9024118&isnumber=9127988


S. R. Mohapatra and V. Agarwal, "Model Predictive Control for Flexible Reduction of Active Power Oscillation in Grid-Tied Multilevel Inverters Under Unbalanced and Distorted Microgrid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 56, no. 2, pp. 1107-1115, March-April 2020, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2019.2957480.
Abstract: The unbalanced and distorted grid phenomena are expected to be a critical factor for future microgrids due to extensive use of unbalanced and nonlinear loads. These microgrid conditions keep changing depending on the load profile. The active power oscillation, which happens due to polluted grid conditions, results in dc-link voltage fluctuation. Therefore, not only lifetime of the batteries and dc-link capacitors are compromised but also the stability of the system is affected. Active power oscillation can only be reduced by compromising with the harmonic distortion of the grid currents. Therefore, to cope with various expected abnormal microgrid conditions, a tradeoff between active power oscillation and total harmonic distortion of grid current is required. This article proposes a novel flexible reference current generation technique by using a tuning parameter to reduce the active power oscillation flexibly. The generated reference current comprises not only the positive and negative sequence currents but also lower order harmonic components. The peak values of all the components present in the reference current are decided in a stationary reference frame. Since model predictive controller tracks multifrequency reference currents without any additional requirement and with good stability margin, it has been used to control the neutral point clamped grid-tied three-level inverter. The concept is validated through simulation and experimental results.
keywords: {Oscillators;Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Microgrids;Inverters;Phase locked loops;Power system stability;Active power oscillation;distorted grid;model predictive control;multilevel inverters;unbalanced grid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8922645&isnumber=9035957


S. F. Zarei, H. Mokhtari, M. A. Ghasemi, S. Peyghami, P. Davari and F. Blaabjerg, "Control of Grid-Following Inverters Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 184-192, March 2020, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2019.2945699.
Abstract: This paper proposes a new control scheme to eliminate the 3rd harmonic in the output currents of grid-following inverters under unbalanced grid conditions. Unbalanced grids adversely affect the performance of grid-following inverters due to the oscillations appearing on the DC-link voltage with a frequency twice the line frequency. The paper is based on instantaneous active reactive control (IARC) technique due to its advantages over other existing methods. However, the presence of severe asymmetrical 3rd harmonic distortions in the inverter output currents is the main challenge with IARC method, which impairs the power quality requirements. This paper enhances the IARC scheme by proposing a 3rd harmonic elimination approach by adopting a current reference generation method using the symmetric sequence components concept. Furthermore, the proposed scheme complies with the grid code requirements by injecting the requested reactive current. Finally, the proposed approach is evaluated by theoretical and simulation analysis and validated experimentally using a hardware setup.
keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Capacitors;Active filters;Harmonic distortion;Asymmetrical short circuit faults;DC-link voltage control;grid-following inverters;instantaneous active reactive control;output currents 3rd harmonics;unbalanced grid conditions},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8859288&isnumber=9003438


M. Mirhosseini, J. Pou and V. G. Agelidis, "Grid-Connected Photovoltaic Power Plant Without Phase Angle Synchronization Able to Address Fault-Ride-Through Capability," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 3467-3476, Dec. 2020, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.2940911.
Abstract: This article discusses the control of large-scale grid-connected photovoltaic power plants (GCPPPs) operating under unbalanced grid voltage sags. The positive and negative sequences of the output currents are controlled to achieve different targets-injecting constant power to the grid or to the ac side of the converter, i.e., including the filter and the grid. Traditionally, synchronization with the grid voltages is required, which is usually performed by a phase-locked-loop (PLL) technique. In this article, the proposed control technique does not require any grid voltage synchronization. An arbitrary angle is used instead with the only requirement of having a frequency equal or close to the grid frequency. The fault-ride-through capability of the GCPPP during unbalanced voltage sags is addressed by proposing a current limiter. Simulation and experimental results verify the performance of the proposed GCPPP.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Synchronization;Power quality;Voltage control;Reactive power;Photovoltaic systems;Fault current limiters;phase-locked loops (PLLs);photovoltaic (PV) systems;power system faults},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8832213&isnumber=9244680


M. Graungaard Taul, X. Wang, P. Davari and F. Blaabjerg, "Current Reference Generation Based on Next-Generation Grid Code Requirements of Grid-Tied Converters During Asymmetrical Faults," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 3784-3797, Dec. 2020, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.2931726.
Abstract: Increased penetration of converter-based power generation has enforced system operators to require ancillary services from distributed generation in order to support the grid and improve the power system stability and reliability. Recent and next-generation grid codes require asymmetrical current provision during unbalanced faults for optimal voltage support. To address this, based on the highly used flexible positive- and negative-sequence control method for current reference generation, this paper presents a general current reference strategy for asymmetrical fault control, where a direct and explicit method is proposed to calculate power references and controller gains while simultaneously complying with converter current limitation and fulfilling the next-generation grid code requirements. The proposed method is tested for three distinct asymmetrical grid faults considering the requirements for dynamic voltage support of the recently revised German grid code as well as the next-generation grid codes. It is shown that the proposed method can improve the fault ride-through performance during asymmetrical faults compared with conventional solutions and comply with modern grid code requirements in a general and flexible manner.
keywords: {Reactive power;Power system stability;Voltage control;Next generation networking;Power system dynamics;Synchronization;Power electronics;Asymmetrical grid fault;current reference generation;dynamic voltage support;fault ride-through;grid-connection;voltage-source converter (VSC)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8779660&isnumber=9244680


R. Zhu and M. Liserre, "Control of Smart Transformer Under Single-Phase to Ground Fault Condition," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 2034-2043, Feb. 2020, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2019.2927423.
Abstract: In low voltage (LV) electric distribution grid, the continuity of power supply service is degraded by various grid faults. Even under single phase to ground faults, the continuous operation capability of healthy phases is also limited. The smart transformer (ST) can establish each phase voltage independently and thus can switch the operation mode from three-phase to two-phase operation during single phase faults, ensuring continuous power supply in two healthy phases and minimizing outage area. However, different from the three-phase operation mode, both high 2nd-order oscillation in dc-link and high current in neutral conductor challenge system performances and reliability under the two-phase operation. Thus, an improved two-phase voltage control strategy is needed either to limit the neutral current amplitude avoiding over ampacity (reducing the power losses and suppressing neutral potential variations), or to suppress dc power oscillation (preventing the lifetime reduction of dc-link capacitors). This paper focuses on the control system design of ST voltage control for the two-phase operation to improve the grid voltage quality. The simulation and experimental results clearly verify the effectiveness and correctness of the proposed strategy.
keywords: {Voltage control;Oscillators;Control systems;Transfer functions;Power supplies;Electric potential;Current control;Asymmetrical operation;grid fault;resilience;smart transformer (ST)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8771215&isnumber=8903439


A. Mora, R. Cárdenas, M. Urrutia, M. Espinoza and M. Díaz, "A Vector Control Strategy to Eliminate Active Power Oscillations in Four-Leg Grid-Connected Converters Under Unbalanced Voltages," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 1728-1738, June 2020, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.2921536.
Abstract: The problems associated with active power oscillations (APOs) in grid-connected converters are well-known. Imbalances in the grid usually produce double-frequency oscillations in the dc-link voltage and current which could reduce the useful life of solar panels, batteries, and capacitors connected to this point. Moreover, as reported in the literature, double-frequency reactive power oscillations (RPOs) also produce adverse effects in distribution systems, and it is desirable to eliminate or mitigate them. When a four-leg power converter is connected to an unbalanced grid, the zero-sequence current provides extra degrees of freedom to compensate or even eliminate the power oscillations at the converter dc-link side. In this paper, a new methodology to regulate these double-frequency power components is proposed. It is based on a closed-loop vector control approach, where the active power oscillations (APOs) at converter side are transformed into a synchronous frame rotating at twice the grid frequency and regulated using the zero-sequence current. To avoid overcurrent produced by the circulation of positive-, negative-, and zero-sequence components a current limiter is also proposed in this paper. Experimental results obtained with a 4-kW four-leg power converter prototype are presented and discussed in this paper.
keywords: {Reactive power;DC-AC power converters;Power distribution;Power control;DC–AC converters;distribution system;power control;symmetrical components},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8732350&isnumber=9084070


H. Khan, S. J. Chacko, B. G. Fernandes and A. Kulkarni, "Reliable and Effective Ride-Through Controller Operation for Smart PV Systems Connected to LV Distribution Grid Under Abnormal Voltages," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 2371-2384, Sept. 2020, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.2918620.
Abstract: Proliferation of distributed photovoltaic (PV) systems forced utilities to demand ancillary features, such as voltage support (VS), ride-through (RT) operation, and islanding detection, to handle grid contingencies. An integrated controller to respond independently on situations like low grid voltages during faults, overvoltages during low-loading, and islanding is not yet discussed. A smart low-voltage (LV) RT controller for PVs connected at high penetration to LV grid is presented in this paper. The nature of power and currents fed from PVs for effective VS, and the coordinated operation of maximum-power-point-tracking and RT controller during grid abnormalities of longer duration are detailed. In LV grids, the ratio of X/R is low; therefore, control of active power is given higher priority compared to reactive power from distributed PVs. The controller distinguishes the island and voltage disturbance event for reliable operation. The controller includes: 1) reactive power support with active power curtailment controller for dynamic support; 2) decoupled-double-synchronous-reference-frame based synchronization and sequence extraction from unbalanced voltages; 3) reference current generator which eliminates active power oscillations and compensates voltage unbalances; 4) peak current limiter; and 5) proportional-resonant controllers for injection of unbalanced currents. The performance of the controller during various grid conditions is evaluated with simulation and experimental results.
keywords: {Reactive power;Voltage control;Power system stability;Reliability;Inverters;Oscillators;Sensitivity;Distributed control;photovoltaic (PV) systems;power control;power distribution faults;switching converters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8721141&isnumber=9153184


T. -L. Nguyen and H. -H. Lee, "An Enhanced Control Strategy for AC–DC Matrix Converters Under Unbalanced Grid Voltage," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 67, no. 3, pp. 1718-1727, March 2020, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2019.2907452.
Abstract: Under unbalanced grid voltage conditions, an ac-dc matrix converter (MC) induces ripple on the dc side, as well as severe grid current harmonics. To overcome these problems, an enhanced control strategy for an ac-dc MC based on an independent control scheme for the active and reactive powers is proposed in this paper. The generated current reference is directly synthesized from instantaneous power analysis in a stationary frame, and a constant dc voltage and current and sinusoidal grid current are obtained. Moreover, the input power factor (IPF) becomes almost unity due to the reactive power control, in spite of unbalanced grid voltage conditions. There is no need to extract grid voltage components such as the positive and negative sequences, and a controller for the grid current is not required, in contrast to previous methods. Thus, the proposed control method can be implemented easily without a large storage requirement. Simulation and experimental results are presented to verify the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.
keywords: {Reactive power;Voltage control;Modulation;Support vector machines;Harmonic analysis;Matrix converters;AC–DC matrix converter (MC);space vector modulation (SVM);unbalanced grid voltage;unity input power factor (IPF)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8678659&isnumber=8889771


S. Gu, X. Du, Y. Shi, P. Sun and H. -M. Tai, "Power Control for Grid-Connected Converter to Comply With Safety Operation Limits During Grid Faults," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 866-876, March 2020, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2018.2888552.
Abstract: This paper presents a new power control strategy for the grid-connected converter under grid faults. Positiveand negative-sequence reactive powers are controlled separately to effectively support the unbalanced grid voltages. Both maximum phase current limit and maximum active power oscillation limit are considered to make sure that the converter operates safely under grid faults. The spare capacity is fully used to generate active power. Simulation and experimental results are presented to demonstrate that the reactive power is generated immediately and a gradual generation of active power reduces the load of crowbar or other energy transfer devices.
keywords: {Reactive power;Oscillators;Safety;Voltage control;Power control;Power electronics;Current control;Active power oscillation;power control;safety operation;voltage source converter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8580545&isnumber=8977415


Y. Liu, Y. Liu, B. Ge and H. Abu-Rub, "Interactive Grid Interfacing System by Matrix-Converter-Based Solid State Transformer With Model Predictive Control," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 2533-2541, April 2020, doi: 10.1109/TII.2017.2679137.
Abstract: The back-to-back connection of two three-to-single-phase matrix converters (MCs) through a high-frequency transformer to create the so called MC-based solid state transformer (SST) for interactive grid interfacing is proposed in this paper. The solution provides single-stage bidirectional ac-ac power conversion. There are advantages of no lifetime-limited storage capacitors, light weight, and compact volume. The conventional modulation methods of this MC-SST system require additional control design for power management. Besides, space vector modulation contains sophisticated voltage and current vectors computation and duty cycle composition, considering the two back-to-back connected three-to-single-phase MCs. In this paper, a model predictive control (MPC) is proposed for this MC-SST linking different ac grids. The proposed MPC predicts the state variables based on the discrete model of MC-SST system and the present circuit variables, and then selects an optimal switching state that ensures the smallest value of a cost function, for the next sampling time. Simulation and experimental studies are carried out to demonstrate effectiveness and simplicity of the proposed MPC for such MC-SST grid-interfacing system.
keywords: {Modulation;Cost function;Predictive models;Switches;Voltage control;Support vector machines;Informatics;Matrix converter;model predictive control;power management;solid state transformer;voltage unbalance},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7873242&isnumber=8966383


J. M. L. Fonseca, F. Kleber A. Lima, C. G. C. Branco and R. G. Araujo, "A Novel Phase-Locked Loop with Positive and Negative Sequence Detection Capability," 2019 IEEE 15th Brazilian Power Electronics Conference and 5th IEEE Southern Power Electronics Conference (COBEP/SPEC), Santos, Brazil, 2019, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/COBEP/SPEC44138.2019.9065635.Abstract: This paper proposes the expansion of two phase-locked loop structures to detect positive and negative sequence components. The first structure is a positive sequence detector only and the second one is a modification of the first one where an adaptive filter is added to increase filtering capability in scenarios with interharmonic distortion. Both proposed structures were implemented in the hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) dSPACE 1103 platform together with two well known structures, the DSOGI-FLL and the DDSRF-PLL. Steady-state and dynamic response of each structure were analyzed in scenarios with either harmonic distortion only or harmonic and interharmonic distortion. Results showed that the proposed structures are highly accurate, specifically under harmonic distortion, however the structure with adaptive filter is slower. In addition, results showed that the structures are at least as precise and fast as the DSOGI-FLL and DDSRF-PLL. Lastly, under interharmonic distortion, it is also found that the PLL with adaptive filter has an overall better performance. keywords: {Frequency estimation;Harmonic distortion;Phase locked loops;Detectors;Mathematical model;Harmonic analysis;Phase-locked loop;Harmonics;Interharmonics;Negative Sequence Detector;dSPACE.},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9065635&isnumber=9065287

J. -t. Guo, T. Jin and M. -q. Wang, "A coordinated controlling strategy in current and power quality for grid-connected inverter under unbalanced grid voltage," 2019 IEEE Sustainable Power and Energy Conference (iSPEC), Beijing, China, 2019, pp. 1183-1188, doi: 10.1109/iSPEC48194.2019.8975154.Abstract: When the grid is under the condition of unbalanced voltage, the problems such as the inverter output active and reactive power oscillation, output power quality degradation and overcurrent can be occurred. In order to overcome these problems, there are three different controlling targets: balancing current, suppressing active power as well as reactive power fluctuation. According to the instantaneous power theory, it is impossible to achieve all controlling targets simultaneously. This paper proposed a grid-connected inverter current quality/power coordinated controlling strategy. The method which uses the IPSO algorithm to set the weight coefficient considers the current balance, the active power and the reactive power fluctuation comprehensively. Simultaneously, the output current can be limited to the maximum output current of the inverter. On this basis, the grid-connected model predictive current controlling strategy based on the reference voltage is established to realize the fast and accurate tracking of the reference current. The simulation results show that the proposed method can coordinate the inverter output current balance, suppress the active power and the reactive power fluctuation oscillation, as well as effectively limit the current peak. keywords: {Unbalanced grid voltage;grid-connected inverter;model predictive current control;instantaneous power},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8975154&isnumber=8974850

L. Sheng, D. Quan, W. Hanwen and Q. Guoming, "Power Stability Analysis and Control of Micro-grid Storage system under Voltage Asymmetric Fault," 2019 IEEE 8th International Conference on Advanced Power System Automation and Protection (APAP), Xi'an, China, 2019, pp. 273-277, doi: 10.1109/APAP47170.2019.9224748.Abstract: Load asymmetric or asymmetric fault will cause output power fluctuation and three-phase current imbalance of micro-grid storage system, which affects the power quality and distribution network system stability. A control strategy of voltage stability and power balance based on novel current decoupled is presented to deal with the problem in this paper. The energy storage converter mathematical model in the state of voltage unbalanced is established, and the mechanism of power fluctuation and three-phase current variation is revealed. The complex coefficient filter is proposed to control the positive sequence voltage and negative sequence voltage independently, and current vector control is realized by the quasi-PR controller. On the basis of decomposing positive and negative sequence current into active and reactive components, the command current values with negative sequence current suppression and power fluctuation suppression as control objectives are given respectively, and the expression of three-phase current is deduced. Case analysis on typical Micro-grid energy storage systems is shown to confirm the feasibility of this method. keywords: {Fluctuations;Energy storage;Voltage control;Reactive power;Mathematical model;Distribution networks;Active filters;micro-grid storage system;ground fault;asymmetric load;quasi - PR control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9224748&isnumber=9224631

N. S. Jaulkar, P. M. Meshram and V. B. Borghate, "A Simplified Fault Control Strategy Applied to Enhanced Resonant Controller Based Grid-tied Converter," 2019 Global Conference for Advancement in Technology (GCAT), Bangalore, India, 2019, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/GCAT47503.2019.8978416.Abstract: Fusion of non-conventional energy sources with the grid has three main stages namely converter, filter and control. In current control system, different controllers are employed such as proportional integral (PI), PI-dq and proportional resonant (PR). But to deal with higher order plant such as unit delay with LCL filter, recently Enhanced Resonant Controller (ERC) is introduced. This paper proposes the simplified current control strategy applied to ERC with grid-tied converter under faulty environment. The proposed method involves a smaller number of transformations compared to the conventional methods. This may help reducing the computational time which can cause increase in the speed of response. This paper also develops the complete current control scheme with the controller on αβ reference frame. The veracity and the robustness of the proposed control strategy have been examined in healthy as well as unsymmetrical faults such as LG and LLG faults. The pictorial presentation of each of the stages of the control also helps in enhancing the understanding. The comprehensive simulations has done in MATLAB/SIMULINK software. keywords: {Simplified control strategy Grid-tied converter;Enhanced Resonant Controller (ERC);LCL filter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8978416&isnumber=8978273

D. Cortes-Vega, F. Ornelas-Tellez and J. Anzurez-Marin, "Comparative analysis of MPPT techniques and Optimal Control for a PMSG-based WECS," 2019 IEEE 4th Colombian Conference on Automatic Control (CCAC), Medellin, Colombia, 2019, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/CCAC.2019.8921183.Abstract: This paper presents a comparative study about different schemes for maximum power point tracking (MPPT) for Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS) based on Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generator (PMSG). Owing to the inherent changing nature of the wind, it is required to have techniques capable of fulfill the task of extracting the maximum available power at any time by tracking some system variables such as rotor speed, torque, power among others. Therefore, including a controller that can track the maximum power point in any wind speed scenario is essential. This paper analyzes four MPPT techniques, Power Signal Feedback (PSF), Tip Speed Ratio (TSR) control, Perturb and Observe Method (P&O) and Optimal Torque (OT) control using a wind speed estimator for the schemes that require such measurement. A comparison of the performance of these MPPT algorithms has been made under a varying wind speed scenario to examine its characteristics such as efficiency and ease of implementation. A nonlinear optimal control scheme based on a State Dependent Coefficient Factorization (SDCF) was designed to track the trajectories generated by the MPPT algorithms. Simulations results developed in Simulink are presented to show the characteristics and performance of each technique. keywords: {Wind turbines;Wind speed;Optimized production technology;Maximum power point trackers;Rotors;Generators;Torque;MPPT;WECS;PMSG;nonlinear control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8921183&isnumber=8920820

J. Ge, Z. Shuai, H. Zhao and Z. J. Shen, "Generalized Power and Current Control for Three-Phase Four-Wire Converter under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," IECON 2019 - 45th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Lisbon, Portugal, 2019, pp. 3900-3905, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2019.8926744.Abstract: Three-phase grid-connected converter usually adopts different power and current control strategies under unbalanced conditions according to the practical application, but the power relationship is mainly discussed in three-phase three-wire system, and zero sequence power is not considered. Though theoretical analysis of the vector relationship between instantaneous power and current, a general expression of reference current for three-phase four-wire converter under unbalanced faults is proposed in this paper, which can realize switching between five fixed objective controls. On this basis, three coordinated objective control strategies are presented, which can be applied to three-phase four-wire converter with different neutral phase overcurrent capability. The proposed control can be easily implemented in αβ0 stationary frame by using only two parameters without phase-locked loop, and can satisfy the case of single-phase and two-phase grounding faults. Simulation results are provided to verify the proposed method. keywords: {Reactive power;Current control;Oscillators;Circuit faults;Grounding;Voltage control;Frequency conversion;three-phase four-wire converter;generalized power and current control;unbalanced grid;vector calculation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8926744&isnumber=8926608

S. R. Mohapatra and V. Agarwal, "Model Predictive Control for Flexible Reduction of Active Power Oscillation in Grid-tied Multilevel Inverters under Unbalanced and Distorted Microgrid Conditions," 2019 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting, Baltimore, MD, USA, 2019, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/IAS.2019.8912020.Abstract: The unbalanced and distorted grid phenomena is expected to be a critical factor for future microgrids due to extensive use of unbalanced and nonlinear loads. These microgrid conditions keep changing depending on the load profile. The DC-link voltage fluctuation, which happens due to polluted grid conditions, not only leads to instability of the system but also compromises the lifetime of the batteries and DC-link capacitors. Active power oscillation can only be reduced by compromising with the harmonic distortion of the grid currents. Therefore, to cope with various expected unbalanced and distorted microgrid conditions, a trade-off between active power oscillation and total harmonic distortion of grid current is required. This paper proposes a novel flexible reference current generation technique by using a tuning parameter to reduce active power oscillation flexibly. The generated reference current comprises not only the positive and negative sequence currents but also lower order harmonic components. The peak values of all the components present in the reference current are decided in a stationary reference frame. Since model predictive controller tracks multifrequency reference currents without any additional requirement and with good transient performance, it has been used to control the neutral point clamped grid-tied three-level inverter. The concept is validated through simulation and experimental results. keywords: {Active power oscillation;multilevel inverters;distorted grid;model predictive control;unbalanced grid},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8912020&isnumber=8911839

A. Charalambous, L. Hadjidemetriou and E. Kyriakides, "Voltage and Frequency Support Scheme for Storage Systems in Distribution Grids," 2019 21st European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications (EPE '19 ECCE Europe), Genova, Italy, 2019, pp. P.1-P.10, doi: 10.23919/EPE.2019.8915109.Abstract: Power electronics converters can enable grid support functionalities under abnormal grid conditions. In this paper, a voltage-frequency support strategy based on the reactance to resistance (X/R) ratio of the grid impedance is proposed for a flywheel energy storage system. Unlike conventional support schemes where voltage and frequency support is decoupled, the proposed strategy considers the coupling between voltage and frequency due to the resistive characteristics of the grid impedance in low voltage distribution grids. In addition, the proposed strategy ensures a fair compensation between voltage and frequency support by utilizing two gains that are defined according to the event type. Simulations and experimental tests are carried out using a laboratory setup to validate the proposed strategy. The capabilities of storage systems to provide such tailor-made ancillary services for supporting the distribution grid are demonstrated. keywords: {Europe;Voltage control;Power electronics;Frequency control;Impedance;Optimized production technology;Energy storage;Converter control;Energy storage;Fault-ride-through;Flywheel;Smart grids},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8915109&isnumber=8914733

A. Charalambous, L. Hadjidemetriou and E. Kyriakides, "Voltage Support Scheme for Low Voltage Distribution Grids Under Voltage Sags," 2019 IEEE Milan PowerTech, Milan, Italy, 2019, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/PTC.2019.8810604.Abstract: A grid-connected power electronics based distributed generator can act as an active element by providing support to the grid under various disturbances. In this paper, a voltage support scheme dedicated for distributed generators installed in the low voltage distribution network is proposed. The voltage support considers the resistive characteristics of the distribution line grid impedance in order to maximize its effectiveness. Therefore, the optimal active and reactive current references are estimated based on the resistance to reactance ratio (R/X). Moreover, a droop curve is suggested such that the intensity of voltage support will be defined according to the voltage drop conditions. The proposed voltage support concept is applied on a photovoltaic system to validate its operation. The effectiveness of the proposal is confirmed by means of simulations in a realistic low voltage distribution network. keywords: {Reactive power;Voltage control;Low voltage;Photovoltaic systems;Generators;Impedance;Resistance;fault ride through operation;low voltage distribution grid;photovoltaics;voltage support scheme},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8810604&isnumber=8810400

M. R. Tur and R. Bayindir, "A Review of Active Power and Frequency Control in Smart Grid," 2019 1st Global Power, Energy and Communication Conference (GPECOM), Nevsehir, Turkey, 2019, pp. 483-488, doi: 10.1109/GPECOM.2019.8778593.Abstract: Frequency and actual power control in energy systems are of great importance in grid control depending on time. The frequency of the system is fixed on the basis of the balance of production and consumption, depending on the actual power balances. Because the frequency is a global value, a change in power demand at a point in power demand is directly affected by the system. But the power system grid currently used was designed around centralized power generation and one-way supply of power deliver to customer to fulfil the basic electricity need. This system is aged and struggle to maintain the frequency of a system. However, in the modern grid model, information flow between producers and consumers is provided in two ways and this communication provides efficient planning. In this study, more efficient and reliable new technologies are searched in order to provide quality energy in smart grid. This review article discusses a frequency and active power control mechanism to ensure the balance between the supply network of the network-intelligent system. keywords: {Frequency control;Smart grids;Power system stability;Power control;Control systems;Power system reliability;Reliability;Smart grid;Frequency control;Active power balance;Dynamic Demand;Emulation of Synchronous Generator},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8778593&isnumber=8778447

Z. Chen, R. H. Lasseter and T. M. Jahns, "Overcurrent Limiting and DC Bus Voltage Ripple Minimization in Grid-Forming PV Sources under Grid Voltage Sags," 2019 IEEE 10th International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Xi'an, China, 2019, pp. 964-971, doi: 10.1109/PEDG.2019.8807552.Abstract: Overcurrent faults and excessive dc bus ripple are key challenges for three-phase photovoltaic (PV) sources during unbalanced grid voltage sags. Compared to widely-used grid-following PV sources, droop-controlled sources with voltage and frequency regulation capabilities can deliver much improved responses. The low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) capability of grid-forming PV sources is investigated. A fast-responding active power control for grid-forming PV sources is proposed that includes fast current-limiting to avoid protection circuit trip events. In addition, negative sequence current compensation is added to the basic droop control to minimize PV dc-bus power oscillations. MATLAB/Simulink-based simulations and controller hardware-in-the-loop (CHIL) results demonstrate the enhanced LVRT capability of the proposed control scheme for grid-forming PV sources under both balanced and unbalanced grid voltage sags. keywords: {Inverters;Power quality;Reactive power;Oscillators;Voltage control;Circuit faults;Capacitors;droop control;grid-forming;photovoltaic (PV) source;overcurrent limiting;dc bus ripple;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT);unbalance;voltage sag},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8807552&isnumber=8807448

J. Yao, L. Wei, Y. Li and P. Lin, "Energy-Efficient Spectrum Allocation for Wireless Sensor Networks in Micro-Grids," 2019 IEEE International Conference on Energy Internet (ICEI), Nanjing, China, 2019, pp. 362-367, doi: 10.1109/ICEI.2019.00070.Abstract: The micro-grid realizes a highly integrated integration of energy flow and information flow, effectively managing the distributed power in large power grids. In order to improve the flexibility and scalability of micro-network communication systems, wireless sensor networks are widely introduced. However, due to factors such as large data transmission and lack of spectrum resources, the limited wireless sensor network node energy does not support its work well. Therefore, the construction of wireless sensor networks in micro-grids must be an important goal to improve node energy efficiency. This paper establishes a model for the spectrum allocation problem in wireless sensor networks, and improves the transmission efficiency by optimizing the spectrum transmission efficiency. In addition, we add time slot variables and decision functions to improve the problem of poor convergence based on cooperative game spectrum allocation algorithm, which avoids the generation of multiple Nash equilibrium. The simulation experiment proves that the improved algorithm can better guarantee the convergence of the algorithm under different numbers of idle channels and improve the energy efficiency of the system. keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Resource management;Games;Nash equilibrium;Power grids;Cognitive radio;Micro-grid, wireless sensor network, energy efficiency, spectrum efficiency},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8791368&isnumber=8791101

J. -I. Itoh, S. Nakamura, S. Nagai and H. Watanabe, "FRT Operation for Single-Phase Grid-Tied Inverter with Active Power Decoupling Capability," 2019 10th International Conference on Power Electronics and ECCE Asia (ICPE 2019 - ECCE Asia), Busan, Korea (South), 2019, pp. 746-753, doi: 10.23919/ICPE2019-ECCEAsia42246.2019.8797224.Abstract: This paper proposes a Fault Ride-Through (FRT) operation for a single-phase grid-tied inverter with an active power decoupling capability. The power decoupling circuit achieves the double-line-frequency power pulsation compensation with a small capacitance; consequently, a transient response with a sudden load change becomes worsen because a large energy buffer, i.e. bulky electrolytic capacitors, does not apply. In particular, high overshoot voltages occur in a DC-link voltage when the grid voltage sag of the single-phase grid occurs, resulting in the interrupt of the FRT operation due to the over voltage protection. In order to solve this problem, the buffer capacitance is designed in the consideration of the overshoot amount of the DC-link voltage. The theoretical value of the overshoot amount is verified with a l-kW prototype. As an experimental result, The error between the experimental and the calculation value is within 10%. Furthermore, the proposed control achieved both the FRT operation and the active power decoupling capability. keywords: {Transient response;Power quality;Asia;Prototypes;Power system stability;Capacitance;Minimization;DC-AC Inverters;FRT Operation;Active Power Decoupling},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8797224&isnumber=8796487

G. Sun, Y. Li, W. Jin, S. Li and Y. Gao, "A Novel Low Voltage Ride-Through Technique of Three-Phase Grid-Connected Inverters Based on a Nonlinear Phase-Locked Loop," in IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 66609-66622, 2019, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2912859.
Abstract: In this paper, a novel low voltage ride-through (LVRT) technique for three-phase grid-connected inverters is proposed. The proposed technique consists of two parts: a nonlinear phase locked loop based on complex-coefficient filters (NLCCF-PLL) and an LVRT control scheme. Generally, the synchronization process of three-phase grid-connected inverters is performed via PLL with a relatively low bandwidth, which delays the detection of voltage sag and recovery during the LVRT process. To accelerate the synchronization process, the NLCCF-PLL with adaptive controller gains is proposed to improve both the filtering capability and dynamic performance of PLL at the same time. The stability of the NLCCF-PLL is validated by the second method of Lyapunov in the nonlinear model, and the superiority of its operating performance is verified. The proposed LVRT control scheme consists of a reference current calculation block to effectively suppress the power ripples and an inner loop controller with strong robustness as well as fast dynamic response. By comparing the proposed LVRT technique with the existing LVRT technique on the basis of experimental results, the superiority of the proposed LVRT technique is confirmed.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Inverters;Power system stability;Power system dynamics;Harmonic analysis;Steady-state;Filtering;Low voltage ride-through (LVRT);phase-locked loops (PLL);nonlinear control;the second method of Lyapunov;three-phase grid-connected inverters;power ripples},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8695783&isnumber=8600701


F. Nejabatkhah, Y. W. Li and H. Tian, "Power Quality Control of Smart Hybrid AC/DC Microgrids: An Overview," in IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 52295-52318, 2019, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2912376.
Abstract: Today, conventional power systems are evolving to smart grids, which encompass clusters of AC/DC microgrids, interfaced through power electronics converters. In such systems, increasing penetration of the power electronics-based distributed generations, energy storages, and modern loads provide a great opportunity for power quality control. In this paper, an overview of the power quality control of smart hybrid AC/DC microgrids is presented. Different types of power quality issues are studied first, with consideration of real-world hybrid microgrid examples, including data centers, electric railway systems, and electric vehicles charging stations. It shows that compared to traditional centralized power quality compensations, smart interfacing power converters from distributed generations, energy storages, and loads, and the AC and DC subgrids interfacing converters are promising candidates for power quality control. To realize the smart interfacing converters’ power quality control, both primary converters control and secondary system coordination are required. In this paper, a thorough review of the primary control of interfacing converters to integrate the power quality compensation are presented, with a focus on the hybrid AC/DC microgrid harmonics compensation and unbalance compensation. For multiple interfacing converters, the secondary control with system-level coordination and optimization for harmonics and unbalance compensation (considering both unbalance and harmonics in single-phase and three-phase systems) are also presented. Challenges like low switching frequency of interfacing converters, parallel interfacing converters operation, and interfacing converters communications are discussed, and typical solutions for primary and secondary controls to deal with them are presented. The paper also includes rich case study results.
keywords: {Power quality;Microgrids;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Hybrid power systems;Data centers;Harmonic compensation;hybrid AC/DC microgrid;interfacing power electronics converters;power quality;primary and secondary control;smart converters;smart grids;unbalance compensation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8694999&isnumber=8600701


J. M. Rey, M. Castilla, J. Miret, A. Camacho and R. Guzman, "Adaptive Slope Voltage Control for Distributed Generation Inverters With Improved Transient Performance," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 1644-1654, Sept. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2019.2909780.
Abstract: Reactive power injection in distributed generation inverters is an useful ancillary service for grid supporting purposes. For grid-feeding converters, the slope control method is the most common voltage regulation strategy used in local (communication-less) applications. Despite its simplicity, this method offers limited dynamic properties in scenarios with changing operation conditions. In this sense, this paper presents an adaptive slope voltage control that provides an improved transient performance against operating variations. To derive the control configuration, a control-oriented mathematical model is developed. The accuracy of the modeling and the performance of the proposed control are validated by selected experimental results.
keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Inverters;Distributed power generation;Mathematical model;Transient analysis;Proposals;Adaptive slope voltage;distributed generation;grid-feeding power converter;slope voltage control;voltage regulation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8684334&isnumber=8809419


M. Naresh and R. K. Tripathi, "Intelligent control strategy for power management in hybrid renewable energy system," 2019 Innovations in Power and Advanced Computing Technologies (i-PACT), Vellore, India, 2019, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/i-PACT44901.2019.8960177.Abstract: Now a days, the power distribution between RES and load through a storage backup system to balance the load using adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) in Wind/PV/FC/battery system is discussed. The dynamic model consists of PV, FC, storage system, converters and controllers for ensuring the continuous power supply for load demand. The proposed hybrid control strategy for hybrid renewable energy with wind, solar power, FC and battery system are proposed in grid connected hybrid system. The proposed control strategy is performed under random solar insolation and temperature, to obtain maximum power by using ANFIS at different conditions. The main aim of this paper is to maintain constant DC bus voltage, analyze and study the improvements in power flow in HPS. keywords: {ANFIS;PV Cell;FC;Battery;SOC;Power Control;Wind Turbine},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8960177&isnumber=8959515

B. Liu, Z. Liu, J. Liu, R. An, H. Zheng and Y. Shi, "An Adaptive Virtual Impedance Control Scheme Based on Small-AC-Signal Injection for Unbalanced and Harmonic Power Sharing in Islanded Microgrids," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 34, no. 12, pp. 12333-12355, Dec. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2019.2905588.
Abstract: To address the unbalanced and harmonic power sharing issue among parallel inverters caused by feeder impedance mismatch in islanded microgrids, an adaptive virtual impedance control method is proposed based on the injection of an extra small ac signal (SACS) in the output voltage of each inverter. Similar to the principle of active power-frequency droop, the frequency of the injected signal droops with the output unbalanced and harmonic power, while the active power produced by the injected SACS is detected to adjust the virtual impedance at the fundamental negative sequence and selected harmonic frequencies, which will tune the distribution of unbalanced and harmonic power in the system. When the injected SACSs of each inverter synchronize with each other and reach a common frequency in steady state, the virtual impedance of each inverter will be matched to each other for evenly sharing the unbalanced and harmonic power. This proposed method requires neither communication links among parallel inverters nor feeder impedance information. Furthermore, the control parameter design method based on modeling and stability analysis of the proposed control structure is discussed in detail. Finally, simulation and experimental results are provided to validate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
keywords: {Impedance;Harmonic analysis;Microgrids;Inverters;Voltage control;Power harmonic filters;Droop control;nonlinear load;parallel inverters;signal injection;unbalanced load},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8668380&isnumber=8829148


Z. Ali, N. Christofides, L. Hadjidemetriou and E. Kyriakides, "Diversifying the Role of Distributed Generation Grid-Side Converters for Improving the Power Quality of Distribution Networks Using Advanced Control Techniques," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 55, no. 4, pp. 4110-4123, July-Aug. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2019.2904678.
Abstract: Diversifying the role of grid-side converters (GSCs) associated with distributed generation (DG) may have a technical and economic impact. The increasing number of residential photovoltaic systems can be exploited by distribution network (DN) operators in order to support and improve the power quality of the grid without considerable further capital investment. The GSC can support the grid during abnormal conditions but may also be used to improve the DN power quality by balancing out asymmetries and alleviating the grid from undesired harmonics. The proposed advanced control technique demonstrates through simulation and experimental results that the role of GSC can be upgraded to improve the power quality of the grid. Furthermore, the proposed control scheme is validated on a realistic low-voltage DN using data from the Electricity Authority of Cyprus. Consequently, conventional practices by DN operators for improving the power quality can be reassessed as the necessary power electronics hardware for mitigating grid problems is already present within the GSCs of DG systems.
keywords: {Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Power quality;Oscillators;Voltage control;Complexity theory;Current controller;distribution network (DN);harmonic and asymmetry compensation;power quality;prosumers;renewable energy systems;rooftop photovoltaic (PV) systems},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8665940&isnumber=8752494


S. R. Mohapatra and V. Agarwal, "Comparative Experimental Study of Predictive and Resonant Controllers of Grid-Tied Inverter under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," 2019 IEEE International Conference on Sustainable Energy Technologies and Systems (ICSETS), Bhubaneswar, India, 2019, pp. 30-35, doi: 10.1109/ICSETS.2019.8744929.Abstract: Simultaneous and flexible reduction of active and reactive power (P and Q) oscillations during grid imbalance in distributed power generation system is quite complex and poses a major research challenge. Various control techniques such as proportional-integral, proportional-resonant (PR) and hysteresis control have already proved their effectiveness under unbalanced grid (UG) conditions. Out of the above control techniques, PR controller is considered to be the most popular controller due to its simultaneous tracking ability for both positive and negative sequence of grid current. The model predictive controller is relatively recent, and its performance has been evaluated for UG conditions. But, no comparative experimental study with the popular PR controller has been reported for flexible P and Q transfer to the UG. In this paper, a comparative practical study is presented for verifying the static and dynamic performance of the two controllers in a distributed generation system during grid unbalance. The paper also examines the impact of sampling time on the static and dynamic performance of the controllers. Discrete-time designs of the two controllers are included, and stability is ensured. A one-kilowatt experimental laboratory prototype has been built to validate the results. keywords: {Distributed generation;UG;power oscillations;model predictive controller;PR controller},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8744929&isnumber=8744688

V. L. Srinivas, B. Singh and S. Mishra, "Fault Ride-Through Strategy for Two-Stage Grid-Connected Photovoltaic System Enabling Load Compensation Capabilities," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 66, no. 11, pp. 8913-8924, Nov. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2019.2899546.
Abstract: This paper proposes an extended Kalman filter (EKF) based control strategy for fault ride-through operation in two-stage grid-connected photovoltaic (GPV) system. Unlike the conventional controllers for ride-through operation, the proposed strategy does not compromise with power quality improvement features in the system while enabling ride-through operation. The controller accounts for nonlinear loads in the system, grid harmonic-currents elimination, and grid-currents balancing even during the harmonic/distorted grid voltages. The IEEE Standard-1547.4 compels the distributed resource to ride-through during voltage disturbances caused by faults. For the ride-through operation, a limit is imposed on PV active power injection to prevent inverter overcurrents and dc-link energy aggregation, which reduces the lifetime of dc-link capacitor. The reactive power is fed to the grid, as per the depth in voltage-sag. The derated PV array power is supplied in cases where the inverter cannot handle the utmost PV-power. The power quality improvement is ensured using EKF state estimator, which precisely estimates the fundamental load currents. In distribution network with modern nonlinear loads, especially at far radial ends, the grid voltages are prone to huge diversions and the proposed controller provides a possible solution to maintain active/reactive power support and maintain power quality in the network. The effectiveness of the strategy is demonstrated through simulations and experiments. Under all disturbances, the harmonic content in grid currents is observed within limits, in accordance with the IEEE Standard-519.
keywords: {Voltage control;Power quality;Inverters;Power system stability;Harmonic analysis;Reactive power;Photovoltaic systems;Distributed generation (DG);extended Kalman filter (EKF);phase-locked loop (PLL);pulsewidth modulation (PWM);total harmonic distortion (THD)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8648354&isnumber=8752485


H. Karimi, M. Karimi-Ghartemani and K. Sheshyekani, "Robust Control of Three-Phase Voltage Source Converters Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 34, no. 11, pp. 11278-11289, Nov. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2019.2895839.
Abstract: This paper proposes a new and robust control strategy for distributed energy resource (DER) units operating in parallel with a three-phase ac grid that could have unbalance voltages. It is well known that the grid imbalance imposes double-frequency ripples on the dc-side capacitor and low-order harmonics on the ac side of a voltage source converter widely used to interface the DERs with the grid. The proposed controller is able to overcome both problems. This not only improves the power quality and stability aspects of the DER and overall system, but will also help reduce the size of the dc-side capacitor. The proposed controller belongs to the family of current controllers and can in principle be added as an upgrade to the existing current controllers. Mathematical analysis and optimal control design aspects are presented and then the performance of the proposed controller is evaluated by various simulation scenarios and hardware-in-the-loop experiments.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Capacitance;Voltage control;Capacitors;Robust control;Power system stability;Circuit faults;Distributed energy resource (DER);distributed generation;double-frequency ripple;robust control;unbalanced grid;voltage source converter (VSC)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8629317&isnumber=8824237


H. Geng, Z. Zheng, T. Zou, B. Chu and A. Chandra, "Fast Repetitive Control With Harmonic Correction Loops for Shunt Active Power Filter Applied in Weak Grid," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 3198-3206, May-June 2019, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2019.2895570.
Abstract: This paper proposes a fast repetitive control (FRC) scheme with harmonic correction loops for the three-phase three-wire shunt active power filter (APF) applied in weak power grid. The FRC scheme consists of a repetitive control loop which is designed in the synchronous rotational frame and a fractional delay (FD) filter for approximating the FD caused by the fixed sampling rate. It can significantly improve the dynamic performance for the harmonic compensation. In weak grid situation, the grid frequency, voltage and then harmonic currents would vary rapidly with disturbances. A cumulative error cancellation loop is introduced into the FRC to improve the harmonic detection accuracy when grid frequency drifts. The harmonic correction loops are proposed to correct the harmonic references with selected orders when they vary rapidly with the grid voltage. With such loops, the compensation precision of the shunt APF can be highly improved. Simulation and experiment results verified the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Delays;Active filters;Power grids;Impedance;Fast repetitive control (FRC);harmonic correction loop;shunt active power filter (APF);weak grid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8626158&isnumber=8694107


G. Bergna-Diaz, J. A. Suul, E. Berne, J. -C. Vannier and M. Molinas, "Optimal Shaping of the MMC Circulating Currents for Preventing AC-Side Power Oscillations From Propagating Into HVdc Grids," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 1015-1030, June 2019, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.2894677.
Abstract: A constrained optimization problem based on the Lagrange multipliers method is formulated to derive the circulating current references of modular multilevel converters (MMCs) directly in abc coordinates. The resulting analytic expressions for calculating the circulating current reference signals are designed to eliminate oscillations in the dc-side power flow, independently of the ac-side operation of the MMC. As a result of the constrained optimization, the circulating currents are shaped to optimally utilize the degrees of freedom provided by the internal energy buffering capacity of the MMC, to effectively decouple the ac-grid conditions from the dc bus. This property of the proposed control method makes it especially suitable for preventing oscillations due to unbalanced ac-grid voltage conditions from propagating into multiterminal high-voltage dc systems. It is shown that the power flow at the dc-side of the MMC will be most effectively decoupled from ac-side transients if the desired steady-state power flow is imposed by acting directly on the circulating current references instead of by acting on the ac-side current references. The operation of an MMC controlled by the proposed approach is demonstrated by simulation studies, verifying the ability to keep the dc power flow free of second harmonic oscillations, independently of the power control objectives applied for calculating the ac-side current references of the converter.
keywords: {Oscillators;HVDC transmission;Optimization;Voltage control;Steady-state;Energy storage;Power electronics;Circulating current control;constrained optimization;energy balancing control;high-voltage dc (HVdc) transmission;Lagrange multipliers method;modular multilevel converters (MMCs)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8625381&isnumber=8704164


R. Sharma and A. Das, "Enhanced Active Power Balancing Capability of Grid-Connected Solar PV Fed Cascaded H-Bridge Converter," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 2281-2291, Dec. 2019, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.2890984.
Abstract: Cascaded H-bridge converter is a promising solution for the next generation large-scale photovoltaic (PV) system having both active and reactive power exchange capacity. However, one challenge with this converter is unbalanced power generation among the clusters or cells due to variation in radiation level, temperature, dusting on PV cells etc. In order to inject balanced power to the grid, in this paper, a controlled exchange of reactive power is proposed so that the converter can work with unbalanced power generation within the clusters. The magnitude of reactive power exchange is derived and necessary conditions to prevent overmodulation are discussed. In addition, the magnitude of zero voltage is derived taking into account both active and reactive power exchange with the grid. By exchanging reactive power, the converter can also be used during low-voltage ride-through condition. This paper introduces a novel representation of unbalanced power generation using the barycentric coordinate system which helps to identify regions in the power plane which require the exchange of reactive power. The proposed method is verified through computer simulation and in a laboratory prototype.
keywords: {Reactive power;Power electronics;Photovoltaic systems;Next generation networking;Low voltage;Maximum power point trackers;Active power;cascaded H-bridge (CHB) multilevel converter;maximum power point tracking;reactive power;solar photovoltaic (PV);zero-sequence voltage},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8601188&isnumber=8887420


D. Zhou and Y. Tang, "A Model Predictive Control-Based Open-Circuit Fault Diagnosis and Tolerant Scheme of Three-Phase AC–DC Rectifiers," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 2158-2169, Dec. 2019, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2018.2888879.
Abstract: Three-phase ac-dc rectifiers are extensively employed in critical power conversion applications. This paper proposes an open-circuit fault diagnosis and tolerant scheme based on model predictive control (MPC) to enhance their reliability. The proposed fault diagnosis method is directly implemented by checking the mismatch signal between the applied switching state and the estimated one. The switching state error is independent of the voltage or current signals. Therefore, it is applicable to different voltage rating and loading scenarios. As long as the faulty switch conducts current, the open-circuit fault can be isolated very fast within several sampling periods. By introducing the healthy leg variables, a generalized model including both normal and faulty operations is proposed and the fault-tolerant scheme can be integrated into the MPC scheme for normal operations. With the proposed generalized model and fault-tolerant scheme, the rectifier can autonomously recover from open-circuit faults and the continuous operation of three-phase ac-dc rectifiers is maintained. The proposed fault diagnosis and tolerant scheme are applicable under balanced and unbalanced grid conditions. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed integrated fault diagnosis and fault-tolerant scheme.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Rectifiers;Switches;Fault diagnosis;Fault tolerance;Fault tolerant systems;Predictive control;AC–DC rectifiers;fault diagnosis;fault tolerant;model predictive control (MPC);open-circuit fault},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8586950&isnumber=8887420


Z. Shuai, M. Xiao, J. Ge and Z. J. Shen, "Overcurrent and its Restraining Method of PQ-Controlled Three-Phase Four-Wire Converter Under Asymmetrical Grid Fault," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 2057-2069, Sept. 2019, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2018.2885553.
Abstract: Three-phase four-wire converter can eliminate power oscillation by introducing the zero sequence current, but the output unbalanced currents are likely to cause overcurrent problem under asymmetrical grid fault. This paper investigates the fault current characteristics of PQ-controlled three-phase four-wire converter and proposes a new overcurrent protection method based on the maximum phase current amplitude estimation. First, the expression of the reference current with active and reactive power oscillation suppression is formulated by the instantaneous reactive power theory. Second, amplitudes of the three-phase unbalanced currents are calculated. The relationships between amplitudes and grid voltage drop depth, as well as that between amplitudes and power factor, are analyzed, respectively. Finally, the reference currents which could simultaneously suppress the fault overcurrent and power oscillation are regulated by detecting the fault phase of power grid and estimating the maximum phase current amplitude. Since the maximum phase current amplitude is obtained by only one phase, the calculation process can be very simplified. RT-LAB experimental results verify the validity of the theoretical analysis by comparisons with the existing methods.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Reactive power;Oscillators;Voltage control;Grounding;Power electronics;Power grids;Asymmetrical grid fault;maximum phase current amplitude estimation;power oscillation suppression;three-phase four-wire converter;unbalanced fault current limit},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8567946&isnumber=8782676


J. He et al., "A Fault-Tolerant Operation Approach for Grid-Tied Five-Phase Current-Source Converters With One-Phase Supplying Wire Broken," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 34, no. 7, pp. 6200-6218, July 2019, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2018.2867219.
Abstract: In this paper, an enhanced fault-tolerant operation approach is developed to maintain continued operation of five-phase grid-tied current-source converters (CSCs) during one-phase supplying wire broken. First, the instantaneous power flow of this system is analyzed based on the sequence decomposition method. It is found that through proper arrangement of positive-, negative-, and pseudozero-sequence components of line current reference and compensation of filter CL current offset, the CSC system can achieve reduction of instantaneous active power fluctuation and minimization of line current magnitude at the same time. Accordingly, multiphase CSCs are able to operate with smaller dc rail current ripples and to obtain more active power transfer capability during fault tolerant operation. In addition, this paper also briefly discusses the control of multiphase systems in the case of complex grid faults with simultaneous wire broken and imbalanced grid voltage dips. It is found that an intentional constant reactive power injection can help to reduce the peak current of the five-phase grid-tied system. Furthermore, it should be noted that the proposed method is realized in a direct current modulation manner. Thus, a large number of line current acquisition devices for conventional multiphase grid-tied converters are removed. Finally, this paper also discusses the modulation method of five-phase CSC with one-phase wire broken. A modified “ampere-second balance” principle is applied to direct obtain the gating signals that can satisfy the constraints of CSCs.
keywords: {Wires;Reactive power;Rails;Modulation;Power conversion;Fault tolerance;Fault tolerant systems;Current-source converters (CSCs);power quality;pulsewidth modulation (PWM);sequence decomposition},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8447273&isnumber=8704166


A. Adib, J. Lamb and B. Mirafzal, "Ancillary Services via VSIs in Microgrids With Maximum DC-Bus Voltage Utilization," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 648-658, Jan.-Feb. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2018.2865483.
Abstract: Grid-interactive inverters allow distributed generation units to provide various ancillary services in microgrids. As the linear modulation region of inverters is restricted by the dc-bus voltage, providing ancillary services may drive the fundamental positive-sequence inverter voltage to the overmodulation region. Therefore, to operate in the linear modulation region the maximum active- and reactive-power of the inverter may have to be reduced unless pulsewidth modulation (PWM) references are adjusted. In this paper, an atypical PWM method is proposed for maximizing dc-bus utilization of grid-interactive two-level voltage source inverters (2L-VSI) providing ancillary services. Two important ancillary services, i.e., negative-sequence compensation and harmonic compensation are considered in this paper. The proposed method increases the maximum active- and reactive-power that a 2L-VSI can deliver when providing ancillary services by injecting a common-mode component in the references computed based on instantaneous reference magnitudes. The validity of the proposed technique is verified through simulation, as well as experimental data obtained using a 208-V three phase grid-connected 2L-VSI.
keywords: {Pulse width modulation;Harmonic analysis;Inverters;Microgrids;Power harmonic filters;Voltage control;Ancillary (auxiliary) services;atypical pulsewidth modulation (PWM);dc-bus utilization;harmonic compensation;microgrids;negative-sequence compensation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8436000&isnumber=8579350


Q. -C. Zhong and Z. Lyu, "Droop-Controlled Rectifiers That Continuously Take Part in Grid Regulation," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 66, no. 8, pp. 6516-6526, Aug. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2018.2863193.
Abstract: In this paper, a generic framework for a rectifier to continuously take part in the regulation of grid voltage and frequency is proposed. It can automatically change the power consumed to support the grid, without affecting the normal operation of the load. Such a rectifier has a built-in storage port, in addition to the normal ac and dc ports. The flexibility required by the ac port to support the grid is provided by the storage port without affecting the dc port. The grid support of the ac port is achieved through the recently proposed universal droop controller (UDC). A dc-bus voltage controller cascaded to the UDC is proposed to regulate the dc-bus voltage of the storage port within a wide range so as to provide the flexibility needed, while the dc-port voltage is maintained constant. An illustrative example is presented with the recently proposed $\theta$-converter, which consists of three ports with only four switches. Experimental results are provided to verify the capability of the rectifier to regulate the grid voltage and frequency without affecting the load.
keywords: {Voltage control;Capacitors;Frequency control;Synchronous machines;Generators;Energy storage;Smart grids;Continuous demand response;frequency regulation;grid-connected rectifiers;grid support;smart grid integration;synchronized and democratized (SYNDEM) smart grids;universal droop controller (UDC);virtual synchronous machines (VSMs); $\theta$ -converter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8434249&isnumber=8678530


H. N. Le and J. -I. Itoh, "Inductance-Independent Nonlinearity Compensation for Single-Phase Grid-Tied Inverter Operating in Both Continuous and Discontinuous Current Mode," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 4904-4919, May 2019, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2018.2864735.
Abstract: This paper proposes a control for a single-phase grid-tied inverter operating in both continuous current mode (CCM) and discontinuous current mode (DCM) to minimize inductors without worsening a current total harmonic distortion (THD). In a conventional CCM/DCM control, an inductance is required in a DCM nonlinearity compensation; consequently, the control becomes inductance-dependent. In the proposed control, a duty ratio at a previous calculation period is utilized to compensate for the DCM nonlinearity and detect current modes independently from the inductance. A 4-kW 100-kHz prototype of the inverter with two designs of the inductor is realized to confirm the effectiveness of the proposed control. When the inductor impedance, which is normalized by an inverter impedance, is reduced from 1.8% to 0.5%, volume and material cost of the inductor are reduced by 51% and 62%, respectively, whereas the loss at a light load of 0.1 p.u. is reduced by 35%. However, due to this inductor minimization, the current THD at a rated load increases from 2.3% to 8.7% with the conventional control, violating the grid current harmonic constraint regulated by standard IEEE-1547. The proposed CCM/DCM control reduces the current THD from 8.7% to 2.1%, enabling the inductor minimization and satisfies the grid standard.
keywords: {Inverters;Inductance;Power harmonic filters;Current control;Clamps;Inductors;Distortion;Continuous current mode (CCM);current control;discontinuous current mode (DCM);nonlinear control systems;single-phase grid-tied inverters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8432123&isnumber=8681212


J. Zhou, F. Tang, Z. Xin, S. Huang, P. C. Loh and J. Jiang, "Differences Between Continuous Single-Phase and Online Three-Phase Power-Decoupled Converters," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 3487-3503, April 2019, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2018.2856830.
Abstract: Second-order oscillating power is always generated by a single-phase converter. To decouple this oscillating power from its dc link requires a power decoupling circuit to operate continuously. In contrast, ac grid voltages supplying a three-phase converter are usually balanced. There will, hence, be no oscillating power, if grid currents are balanced too. However, grid voltages may become unbalanced during fault or other disturbances, which, when multiplied with balanced currents, will result in oscillating power. Power decoupling for a three-phase converter is, thus, only necessary during fault, rather than continuously. Its target should also be to improve power quality even during fault, rather than to prolong lifetimes of capacitors claimed with single-phase decoupling. Those differences cause criteria applicable to selecting a power decoupling circuit for single- and three-phase converters to be different, especially when there are seven different types of faulted voltage conditions to consider. These considerations are now studied, before presenting experimental results for verifying the effectiveness of all studied three-phase power-decoupled converters.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Capacitors;Standards;Integrated circuits;Topology;Power quality;Voltage control;Power decoupling;second-order power oscillation;three-phase unbalance;voltage and current stresses},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8412098&isnumber=8664410


D. Lu, S. Wang, J. Yao, T. Yang and H. Hu, "Cluster Voltage Regulation Strategy to Eliminate Negative-Sequence Currents Under Unbalanced Grid for Star-Connected Cascaded H-Bridge STATCOM," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 2193-2205, March 2019, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2018.2844544.
Abstract: Under unbalanced grid, three cluster voltages are typically controlled balanced and unchanged for the star-connected cascaded H-bridge static synchronous compensator (CHB STATCOM), however, to deal with the unbalanced grid voltages, the modulation voltages become unbalanced, which would result in fewer steps of the staircase voltages and unbalanced double-line-frequency ripples across the cluster voltages. Thus, the harmonic performance of the currents is deteriorated. In addition, the negative sequence currents are always injected for active power redistribution, which degrades the power quality. To improve the current performance under the unbalanced grid, three cluster voltages are regulated to different values and three-phase modulation voltages can maintain balance. Based on this concept, three cluster voltages can be derived by decomposing the positive- and negative-sequence components from the converter voltages to meet the balance of three-phase currents. To ensure the cluster voltages stable, the zero-sequence voltage is further extracted to analyze the active power distribution. It is interesting to find that the total active power in each phase induced by both the negative and zero-sequence voltages is equal to zero, which reveals the CHB STATCOM has the natural zero-active-power feature. To keep three unequal cluster voltages within a certain boundary, the relationship between the unbalanced grid voltages and the cluster voltages is established, based on which the algorithm of limiting the cluster voltages is proposed. The theoretical analysis and the proposed control scheme are verified by the simulation and experimental results.
keywords: {Modulation;Automatic voltage control;Harmonic analysis;Power system stability;Reactive power;Safety;Cascaded H-bridge static synchronous compensator (CHB STATCOM);cluster voltage;harmonic performance;unbalanced grid;zero-active-power},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8373723&isnumber=8636215


S. F. Zarei, H. Mokhtari, M. A. Ghasemi and F. Blaabjerg, "Reinforcing Fault Ride Through Capability of Grid Forming Voltage Source Converters Using an Enhanced Voltage Control Scheme," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 1827-1842, Oct. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2018.2844082.
Abstract: Medium power distributed energy resources (DERs) are commonly connected to medium voltage distribution systems via voltage source converters (VSCs). Several guidelines and standards have been developed to establish the needed criteria and requirements for DERs interconnections. In this respect, it is preferred to reinforce the VSC fault ride through (FRT) capability, which considerably minimizes the DG outage period and reconnection time and results in a resilient system against short circuits. Considering the significant number of asymmetrical faults in distribution systems, the VSC response in such conditions must be investigated, and consequently, its FRT capability must be reinforced. In this paper, first, a comprehensive review on the existing FRT methods has been presented and discussed. Accordingly, an adaptive virtual impedance-based voltage reference generation method is proposed, which enhances the VSC behavior under short circuits and increases the VSC FRT capability. Also, a fast sinusoidal current reference limiter is proposed to improve the performance. To evaluate the performance of the proposed scheme, state-space analysis is presented, and a complete set of simulations is performed in PSCAD/EMTDC environment. Also, a comparison with the conventional method is presented.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Voltage control;Power conversion;Control systems;Integrated circuit modeling;Power quality;Asymmetrical short circuit fault;current reference limiter;distribution system;fault ride through;grid forming converters;voltage source converters;voltage controller},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8371651&isnumber=8846137


H. Karbouj and Z. H. Rather, "A Novel Wind Farm Control Strategy to Mitigate Voltage Dip Induced Frequency Excursion," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 637-645, April 2019, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2018.2842232.
Abstract: In this paper, a novel wind farm control strategy is proposed to mitigate voltage dip induced frequency excursion in wind integrated power systems. In the proposed control strategy, conventional fixed reactive/active current injection priority is replaced by an optimum adaptive priority based reactive and active current injection. The control problem is formulated as a binary integer optimization problem, which simultaneously minimizes active power shortfall from wind generation during fault and complies with grid code requirements. Detailed wind farm model and wake effect are taken into consideration to achieve realistic response from the wind farm, while IEC 61400-27-1 wind turbine generator model is adopted for wind turbine modeling. Dynamic model of the test system has been developed in DIgSILENT PowerFactory, while the static model is also developed in MATLAB, and cosimulation platform has been used to test and validate the proposed control strategy. The proposed control strategy is applicable to variable speed wind turbine-based wind farm.
keywords: {Voltage control;Circuit faults;Voltage fluctuations;Wind farms;Reactive power;Power system dynamics;Voltage measurement;Wind generation system;frequency stability;delayed active power recovery;fault current priority},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8370058&isnumber=8671770


L. Huang, H. Xin, Z. Wang, L. Zhang, K. Wu and J. Hu, "Transient Stability Analysis and Control Design of Droop-Controlled Voltage Source Converters Considering Current Limitation," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 578-591, Jan. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2017.2749259.
Abstract: In the modern power grid, distributed generators are widely connected to the grid via voltage source converters (VSCs). Analyzing the transient stability of VSCs under large disturbances is useful for maintaining the security of the grid. However, this topic is very little studied. In this paper, the transient stability behavior of the droop-controlled VSC is theoretically explained. In particular, it is shown that transient instability can occur to the droop-controlled VSC when its current is saturated under large disturbances. In addition, the dynamics of the VSC under voltage sags that could incur instability problem is elaborately studied to consider special non-fault disturbances. To deal with this instability problem, a stability enhanced P-f droop control is proposed. Simulations and hardware-in-the-loop experiments verify the validity of the transient stability analysis and the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Power conversion;Power system stability;Transient analysis;Voltage control;Stability criteria;Current limitation;droop control;large disturbance stability;transient stability;virtual synchronous machine;voltage source converter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8026165&isnumber=8595470


S. Pal, M. Mishra, A. Verma, P. R. Kasari, B. Das and A. Chakraborti, "Control of Grid Connected Converters Under Unbalanced Grid Faults," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems (PEDES), Chennai, India, 2018, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/PEDES.2018.8707567.Abstract: A grid connected inverter with an unbalanced voltage at the point of common coupling creates oscillation in DC link voltage at twice the grid frequency and inject highly distorted current into the grid. In this paper analytical expression for oscillation of DC link voltage and distortion in current injected to the grid are derived. Two control strategies for grid connected inverter are implemented and the analytical result obtained for dc link voltage oscillation and distortion in grid current are verified through simulation and experimental results. keywords: {Oscillators;Voltage control;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Voltage fluctuations;Inverters;Capacitors;Unbalance grid fault;grid connected converter Current Harmonics;Active Power Oscillation;DC link ripples;Photovoltaic (PV) systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8707567&isnumber=8707440

P. Nandi and R. Adda, "Three-Phase Grid-Connected Photovoltaic Switched Boost Inverter with Low-Voltage Ride-Through Capability," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems (PEDES), Chennai, India, 2018, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/PEDES.2018.8707858.Abstract: The recent trends of the high level of penetration of photovoltaic (PV) systems with the grid, due to increasing load demands and continuous depletion of conventional energy sources, have attracted more extensive research in this area. Generally, PV systems utilize two-stage topologies which suffer from less efficiency, poor dynamic behavior etc. So, in this paper, the three-phase switched boost inverter (SBI) has been adopted, as a single-stage topology, to integrate PV system and the grid. Additionally, it has advantages over classical voltage source inverter (VSI) such as satisfying both dc and ac load requirements simultaneously, a wide range of output ac voltage, the capability to allow shoot-through, superior protection against electromagnetic interference (EMI) noise etc. With the help of a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) algorithm, Incremental Conductance method, the SBI extracts maximum available power from the PV system. In order to achieve accurate tracking of the grid current, the proportional resonant (PR) has been chosen as current controller which is coupled with harmonic compensator (HC) for superior harmonic performance. According to many updated grid standards, PV systems should incorporate low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) capability, i.e., to support the grid under fault conditions. Hence, the proposed system, called PVSBI in this paper, uses a control strategy to work with both MPPT and LVRT mode of operation. The three-phase PV-SBI has been verified in normal grid conditions, as well as balanced and unbalanced grid voltage sag conditions, using PSCAD/EMTDC. keywords: {Maximum power point trackers;Inverters;Reactive power;Voltage control;Power quality;Switches;Power system stability;Photovoltaic System;Switched Boost Inverter;PR Current Controller;Low-Voltage Ride-Through},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8707858&isnumber=8707440

A. Sabir and M. S. Javaid, "Robust Control of Grid-Connected Photovoltaic Systems Under Unbalanced Faults Without PLL," in Canadian Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering, vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 179-190, Fall 2018, doi: 10.1109/CJECE.2018.2876609.
Abstract: This paper presents the design of a robust control scheme for grid-connected photovoltaic systems subjected to severe operating conditions such as grid faults, abrupt set-point changes, parametric uncertainties, and unknown disturbances. During unbalanced faults, the scheme is able to deliver either constant real and reactive powers, or constant real power with sinusoidal currents to the grid, without requiring a phase-locked loop or symmetrical component decomposition. Moreover, the same controllers are used under normal operation and grid faults. These feats result in a control system having lesser computational requirements and complexity, and a lower number of design steps in comparison to some existing schemes. The dc-link voltage controller is based on active disturbance rejection control, and phase currents are controlled using repetitive control based on the internal model principle. The controllers are designed using linear matrix inequality constraints that can be solved by readily available tools. A number of simulation test cases are presented using the SimPowerSystems toolbox of the MATLAB/Simulink computing environment to demonstrate the performance of the control scheme under various types of grid faults, parametric uncertainties, and abrupt changes under operating conditions. Controller performance is also validated through digital implementation on a low-cost microcontroller.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Complexity theory;Uncertainty;Reactive power;Robust control;Photovoltaic systems;Lyapunov methods;photovoltaic (PV) power systems;power system control;power system faults;robustness},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8581552&isnumber=8581549


N. Kulkarni and V. Virulkar, "Control Strategy to Enhance Power Capability of Power Conditioning Unit During FRT," 2018 International Conference on Electrical, Electronics, Communication, Computer, and Optimization Techniques (ICEECCOT), Msyuru, India, 2018, pp. 1705-1710, doi: 10.1109/ICEECCOT43722.2018.9001357.Abstract: A control strategy that enhances power capability of power conditioning (PCU) by injecting maximum rated current during fault ride through (FRT) is presented in this paper. To attain proposed strategy, two active power production situations like high and low are considered. In first situation, if source supply is not able to supply complete generated power to grid, controller applies active power curtailment ensuring maximum rated current isn't surpassed. If peak value of permissible current is not attained then, control scheme determines reactive power injected to a desired value; in next situation. A current injection technique to achieve a contrast amongst positive and negative current to limit output current of PCU to its peak rated value and obviates active power oscillations. A simulation carried out to verify proposed method suggested. keywords: {Mathematical model;Power quality;Reactive power;Voltage control;Production;Current measurement;Power conditioning;power conditioning unit;fault ride through;voltage sag;reactive power;maximum rated current},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9001357&isnumber=9001300

F. Li, G. Liu, K. Zhu and W. Wang, "An Improved Control Strategy of Virtual Synchronous Generator under Unbalanced Conditions," 2018 IEEE 4th Southern Power Electronics Conference (SPEC), Singapore, 2018, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/SPEC.2018.8636005.Abstract: Virtual synchronous generators (VSG) have the potential to solve the stability problems caused by large-scale grid-connected of distributed generation (DG). However, traditional VSG control will lead to current unbalance and power oscillations under unbalanced conditions. Aiming at these problems, an improved comprehensive control strategy of VSG is proposed based on the traditional VSG control method with voltage and current inner loops. By analyzing the relationship among unbalanced current, power oscillation and negative sequence current, the reference currents under different control targets are obtained. On this basis, the comprehensive control of power fluctuation and current quality is realized by the idea of weighted control. Moreover, the proposed control strategy does not change the voltage source properties of VSG, providing voltage and frequency support for the system, and improving the ability of VSG with unbalanced load under islanded conditions. Simulation results verify the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy. keywords: {Voltage control;Fluctuations;Reactive power;Inverters;Oscillators;Synchronous generators;Power system stability;virtual synchronous generator;unbalanced conditions;comprehensive control;voltage support;islanded},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8636005&isnumber=8635633

M. Naresh and R. Kumar Tripathi, "FPGA Based Power Flow Control of Grid Side Converter of DFIG Wind Energy System," 2018 5th IEEE Uttar Pradesh Section International Conference on Electrical, Electronics and Computer Engineering (UPCON), Gorakhpur, India, 2018, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/UPCON.2018.8597164.Abstract: Now a days, the most important part of the DFIG technology at wind power generation systems. The power generation processes the capability of riding through the grid. The performance of the GSC of DFIG connected WT to develop the PFC is achieved during unbalance load conditions with an AC-DC-AC power converter. The proposed system is FPGA Based Power Flow Control of GSC of DFIG based WES. The power conversion is also operational with AC to DC to AC PWM converters combined during a DC-link voltage. A generated reference frequency is synchronized with PLL. FPGA is used for designing the controller of PLL. keywords: {Doubly fed induction generators;Field programmable gate arrays;Phase locked loops;Rotors;Wind energy;Wind turbines;Reactive power;Field Programmable Gate Array;GSC;Power Control;Phase locked loop;WT},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8597164&isnumber=8596758

C. Shao, M. Zhu, L. Hang, Y. He, G. Li and Z. Lei, "Flexible Control Strategy for MMC to Comply with Voltage Support Requirement Under Unbalanced Grid Faults," IECON 2018 - 44th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Washington, DC, USA, 2018, pp. 4377-4382, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2018.8592792.Abstract: According to the grid codes, grid-connected converters should have the low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) and voltage support abilities. In this paper, a flexible control strategy for the modular multi-level converter (MMC) is presented. First, the mathematical models based on Kirchhoff's laws of MMC are analyzed, and a flexible coordinated controller, which is to protect the multi operating variables in the MMC system and implemented in the d-q coordinate, is proposed. In order to achieve the voltage support capability for MMC, the proper injected power can be deduced considering the line characteristic. Finally, the simulating results from MATLAB/ Simulink, and the experimental results from a scaled-down MMC prototype are presented to verify the feasibility of the proposed control strategy. keywords: {Modular multi-level converter (MMC);grid faults;flexible control strategy;voltage support;DG;VSC-HVDC},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8592792&isnumber=8591058

L. Labib, A. Merabet and A. M. Y. M. Ghias, "Low-Voltage Ride-Through Operation of Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generator with Active and Reactive Power Injection," IECON 2018 - 44th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Washington, DC, USA, 2018, pp. 1848-1853, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2018.8591291.Abstract: This paper presents the design and implementation of a grid-connected permanent magnet synchronous generator wind power system with low-voltage ride-through. A control system regulates the constant dc-link voltage and provides the maximum power transfer to the grid by controlling unity power factor. The active power is regulated to reduce the current excess, and the reactive power is injected into the grid to avoid the inverter damage under grid faults. A dc-link voltage controller maintains a constant dc voltage during faults. The proposed control system is experimentally validated for the normal and faulty conditions on a grid-connected wind power system. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed system regarding voltage and power control. keywords: {Inverters;Wind turbines;Reactive power;Generators;Control systems;Voltage control;Permanent magnets;permanent magnet synchronous generator;inverter;Control interface;low voltage ride through},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8591291&isnumber=8591058

S. Mukherjee, V. R. Chowdhury and J. Kimball, "Control of a three phase boost rectifier under unbalanced grid conditions without grid voltage sensors," 2018 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Portland, OR, USA, 2018, pp. 1521-1527, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2018.8558236.Abstract: This paper presents a method for estimating the positive and negative sequence grid voltage under unbalanced grid conditions using simple algebraic and trigonometric identities without dedicated grid voltage sensors in three phase grid connected boost rectifier converter system. The estimated voltages are then used to control the positive and negative sequence currents of the boost rectifier. The estimation method is based on the positive and negative sequence active and reactive power delivered by the converter to the grid. In addition to the estimation of the positive and negative sequence grid voltage, the proposed method also generates an estimate of the frequency information of the grid similar to a conventional PLL structure. Detailed theory and results confirm the feasibility of the proposed scheme. keywords: {Geometry;Reactive power;Estimation;Rectifiers;Energy conversion;Sensor systems;Frequency estimation;Grid connected converter;grid unbalance;positive and negative sequence;voltage estimation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8558236&isnumber=8557346

A. Adib, F. Fateh, M. B. Shadmand and B. Mirafzal, "Weak Grid Impacts on Stability of Voltage Source Inverters —Asymmetrical Grid," 2018 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Portland, OR, USA, 2018, pp. 3055-3060, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2018.8558042.Abstract: This paper presents the stability analysis of voltage source inverters (VSIs) in the presence of asymmetrical weak grids. Large grid impedances associated with weak grids can make grid-connected VSIs unstable. State-of-the-art research on the stability in weak grids focuses solely on symmetrical grid impedances, with little attention paid to the asymmetrical grid impedance case. The stability analysis of VSIs in asymmetrical weak grids is studied in this paper based on a developed state-space model of a grid-connected VSI considering asymmetrical grid impedances. Root locus studies of the eigenvalues of the model show that an asymmetrical increase in the grid impedance could result in instability for an otherwise stable system in the balanced case. The results are verified through simulations and experiments for a three-phase 208V grid-connected hardware setup for both symmetrical and asymmetrical weak grid cases. keywords: {Analytical models;Voltage source inverters;Voltage;Energy conversion;Power system stability;Stability analysis;Hardware;Voltage source inverter;weak grid;stability analysis;asymmetrical grid;state-space model},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8558042&isnumber=8557346

H. Khan, B. G. Fernandes and A. Kulkarni, "Simultaneous Unbalance and Harmonic Compensation from RESs with Neutral Wire connected to a LV Distribution Grid," 2018 20th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications (EPE'18 ECCE Europe), Riga, Latvia, 2018, pp. P.1-P.10.Abstract: A hybrid power conditioner is proposed for distributed renewable to cater the growing concern of power quality in a low-voltage (LV) grid. The LV distribution grid is inherently unbalanced and usually feeds single-phase loads with a neutral return wire. Hence, the system is 4-wire with finite zero sequence or neutral current. A multi-functional renewable energy source (RES) unit based on split-DC link topology connected to a 4-wire system is proposed in this paper. It is integrated with a decoupled controller which can simultaneously compensate voltage unbalances, neutral current and harmonics of point-of-common-coupling (PCC) voltage. The main advantages of the proposed controller include cancellation of both active and reactive power oscillations during unbalanced current injections, second-order generalised integrator (SOGI) based technique to extract real and imaginary part of zero sequence current, direct harmonic voltage compensation without use of multiple phase locked loops (PLLs) and smooth fault ride-through operation with improved voltage support. Simulation study for a single RES unit connected to a 4-wire LV distribution grid with non-linear loads is carried-out in PSCAD and the results are presented. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Wires;Europe;Reactive power;Inverters;Power system harmonics;Voltage Source Converter (VSC);Renewable energy systems;Power quality;Harmonics;Fault ride-through;Converter control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8515401&isnumber=8515301

H. Khan, B. G. Fernandes and A. Kulkarni, "Decoupled Controller for Simultaneous Harmonic and Unbalance Compensation in a multifunctional RES system connected to a LV Distribution Grid," 2018 20th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications (EPE'18 ECCE Europe), Riga, Latvia, 2018, pp. P.1-P.9.Abstract: There is an increasing concern over power quality with more distributed non-linear loads leading to unbalance and voltage harmonics in low-voltage (LV) grid. The traditional way to improve the power quality in the system is to adopt passive filters or centralized active power filters. Today, many renewable energy-based sources (RESs) are connected to the grid with interfacing converters which can provide harmonic and unbalance compensation. This paper deals with a decoupled controller for simultaneous harmonic and unbalance compensation in a multifunctional smart RES unit. It works on a novel hybrid approach which does not require point-of-common-coupling (PCC) voltage harmonic extraction, multiple phase locked loops (PLLs) or knowledge of distributed load currents. The active power from RES contain both positive and negative sequence current components for improved voltage unbalance compensation. Simulation study for a single RES unit connected to a LV grid with non-linear loads is carried out in PSCAD and results are presented. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Power system harmonics;Frequency control;Europe;Reactive power;Power quality;Voltage Source Converter (VSC);Renewable energy systems;Power quality;Harmonics;Fault ride-through;Converter control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8515632&isnumber=8515301

S. Mortazavian and Y. A. -R. I. Mohamed, "Dynamic Analysis and Improved Control Design of a Grid-Connected Converter with Flexible Multi-Sequence Reactive Current Injection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Smart Energy Grid Engineering (SEGE), Oshawa, ON, Canada, 2018, pp. 186-190, doi: 10.1109/SEGE.2018.8499500.Abstract: The recently developed grid codes suggest the injection of a flexible positive- and negative-sequence reactive current components proportional to the magnitude of the voltage dip to help the power system ride through the unsymmetrical faults. However, to the best of the authors' knowledge, the detailed dynamic analysis of the grid-connected converter dynamics with the flexible positive- and negative-sequence current injection function considering the impact of the grid strength and the converter control parameters are not reported in the literature. To fill in this gap, first, a linear model of the augmented nonlinear system dynamics is developed and the small-signal stability analysis is performed on the system dynamic behaviour. Second, a new and effective model-based controller parameters design method is proposed to maintain the system stability during and after the fault with the consideration of the mutual interaction among different system controllers. Time-domain simulations validate the accuracy and the effectiveness of the developed method. keywords: {Power system stability;Mathematical model;Stability analysis;Power system dynamics;Voltage control;Analytical models;Standards;Distributed generation;multi-sequence;reactive current injection;symmetrical components;unbalanced fault.},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8499500&isnumber=8499202

S. Nagai, K. Kusaka and J. -i. Itoh, "ZVRT Capability of Single-Phase Grid-Connected Inverter With High-Speed Gate-Block and Minimized  LCL Filter Design," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 54, no. 5, pp. 5387-5399, Sept.-Oct. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2018.2858560.
Abstract: This paper proposes a zero-voltage ride-through (ZVRT) method and an LCL filter design method to meet the fault ride-through (FRT) requirements for a single-phase grid-connected inverter with a minimized LCL filter. A high inverter output current overshoot occurs at a grid voltage sag and a grid voltage recovery, when a low-inductance LCL filter design is employed in order to minimize the filter volume. In order to suppress the current overshoot, a high-speed gate-block operation and the design method of the minimized LCL filter are proposed. In particular, the filter design considers the delay time in the gate-block operation in order to clarify the reduction limitation of the inductance in the LCL filter. As a result, the maximum inverter output current overshoot is suppressed to 146% by the high-speed gate-block operation and the designed LCL filter, where the impedances of an interconnected inductor and a filter inductor are 1.0% and 0.78% of the inverter normalized impedance, respectively. Therefore, it is possible to meet the FRT requirements with the proposed ZVRT method even with the minimized LCL filter.
keywords: {Inverters;Logic gates;Inductors;Inductance;Power harmonic filters;Voltage control;Delays;Grid-connected inverter;high-speed gate-block;minimized   $LCL$   filter;output current overshoot;zero voltage ride through (ZVRT)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8417954&isnumber=8467516


C. Qin, D. Liang, J. Zong, X. Wu, J. Mei and B. Wang, "Improvement of Internal Loop Controller for Unbalanced Control System Based on Virtual Synchronous Generator," 2018 IEEE 8th Annual International Conference on CYBER Technology in Automation, Control, and Intelligent Systems (CYBER), Tianjin, China, 2018, pp. 1189-1194, doi: 10.1109/CYBER.2018.8688242.Abstract: In the case of grid voltage imbalance, the virtual synchronous generator (VSG) can not suppress the unbalanced current output by the inverter and reduce the fluctuation components of the active and reactive power output by the inverter. Therefore, an improved control strategy of virtual synchronous machine under unbalanced network voltage is proposed., which can directly obtain active current and reactive current under different control targets without using positive and negative sequence dual current inner loop control structure., reducing the PI controller The number of makes the control is relatively simple. However., in the unbalanced situation., the active and reactive current components are alternating components., which can not be tracked without error with the traditional PI controller. Therefore., the traditional PI controller is improved. A discrete PI controller is proposed to track the alternating component. The results of MATLAB simulation verify the validity and effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8688242&isnumber=8688038

S. F. Zarei, M. A. Ghasemi, S. Peyghami, P. Davari, H. Mokhtari and F. Blaabjerg, "Characterization of Proportional-Integral-Resonant Compensator for DC Link Voltage Control," 2018 IEEE 19th Workshop on Control and Modeling for Power Electronics (COMPEL), Padua, Italy, 2018, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/COMPEL.2018.8460151.Abstract: Voltage unbalance and short circuits in distribution networks adversely affect the performance of grid-tied voltage source inverters (VSIs). Consequently, the dc-link voltage ripple may significantly increase leading to operation of VSI in an unsatisfactory manner. Conventionally in order to maintain the negative sequence current under unbalanced conditions, low-pass/trap filter in the current control loop are required which significantly reduce the controller bandwidth. In order to minimize the dc-link voltage ripple without impairing the controller bandwidth, this paper investigates the design and performance of Proportional-Integral-Resonant (PIR) controller in improving the performance of the VSI under unbalanced condition. The proposed design methodology is validated through simulations and experimental results. keywords: {Voltage control;Current control;Control systems;Mathematical model;Inverters;Stability analysis;Delays;DC link voltage control;grid-tied VSI;unbalanced AC grid;unbalanced voltage sag},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8460151&isnumber=8458485

Q. Salem, L. Liu and J. Xie, "Islanding and Resynchronization Process of a Grid-Connected Microgrid with Series Transformerless H-Bridge Inverter Installed at PCC," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Environment and Electrical Engineering and 2018 IEEE Industrial and Commercial Power Systems Europe (EEEIC / I&CPS Europe), Palermo, Italy, 2018, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/EEEIC.2018.8493797.Abstract: This paper discusses the disconnection and reconnection process of a microgrid and series transformerless H-bridge inverter installed at PCC between the utility and the microgrid. When a short circuit event occurs at the grid side, the transformerless H-bridge inverter should be turned off or bypassed depending on the fault location and the microgrid should disconnect itself to work in island mode. After fault clearance, the H-bridge inverter should be inserted smoothly into the network and the microgrid should be synchronized with the main grid before closing the breaker. Therefore, a modified island control strategy incorporating synchronization controller, and proper coordination with flip flops are implemented in order to satisfy these conditions during disconnection and reconnection process. The transformerless H-bridge inverter operation during fault and its smooth reinsertion after fault clearance have also been clarified. keywords: {Microgrids;Inverters;Circuit faults;Synchronization;Voltage control;Capacitors;Bridge circuits;Islanding;Resynchronization;Microgrid;H-bridge inverter;Short circuit},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8493797&isnumber=8493486

L. Hongpeng, Z. Jiajie and W. Wei, "An Improved Voltage-Type Grid-Connected Control Strategy for Compensating Unbalanced Voltage," 2018 International Power Electronics Conference (IPEC-Niigata 2018 -ECCE Asia), Niigata, Japan, 2018, pp. 1442-1446, doi: 10.23919/IPEC.2018.8507829.Abstract: During grid faults, the grid-connected inverter (GCI) cannot work well by only using the traditional droop control. Besides, the unbalance factor of voltage/current at Common Coupling Point (PCC) may increase significantly. Therefore, in order to ensure GCI stable operation during grid fault, the GCI should integrate the ability to compensate for the imbalance of the grid. To solve the problem mentioned above, an improved voltage-type grid-connected control strategy is proposed in this paper. On the basis of the positive sequence power droop control, a negative sequence conductance compensation loop is added to keep the PCC voltage balance and reduce the grid current imbalance, thus meeting the PCC power quality requirements. Simulation and experimental results have verified the effectiveness of the improved droop control scheme. keywords: {Voltage control;Inverters;Impedance;Reactive power;Power system stability;Power harmonic filters;Voltage-type control;Grid-connected inverter;Unbalanced voltage;Droop control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8507829&isnumber=8502705

J. Huang, F. Guo, C. Wen, B. Yang and J. Xiao, "A Direct Power Control Strategy for AC/DC Converter Based on Best Switching State Approach," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 2273-2286, Dec. 2018, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2018.2832663.
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a direct power control (DPC) method for the ac/dc converter based on the designed dynamic nonlinear model and an approach on selecting the best possible switching state, aiming at guaranteeing the ac current quality, and improving the transient performance, especially under the unbalanced power-source voltage conditions. The proposed DPC mainly consists of three parts, sector selection, outer dc voltage control loop, and inner power control loop. Certain logical expressions are proposed in the sector selection to determine the position of the positive sequence power-source voltage vector. In the outer dc voltage loop, a control law is constructed based on a Lyapunov function. Moreover, a controller based on the best switching state is designed in the inner power loop to eliminate the negative sequence current. The proposed scheme is tested on an experimental platform, and the results show that, compared with the conventional DPC method, the total harmonic distortion of ac currents is reduced by more than 40%, and the transient settling time is almost reduced by 57% under the balanced power-source voltage condition. When the power-source voltage is unbalanced, the ac current quality can still be guaranteed with the proposed control method.
keywords: {Switches;Voltage control;Power control;AC-DC power converters;Reactive power;Transient analysis;Backstepping;best switching state (BSS);direct power control (DPC);total harmonic distortion (THD)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8354836&isnumber=8515215


D. Thakur and J. Jiang, "Control of a PMSG Wind-Turbine Under Asymmetrical Voltage Sags Using Sliding Mode Approach," in IEEE Power and Energy Technology Systems Journal, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 47-55, June 2018, doi: 10.1109/JPETS.2018.2825142.
Abstract: The control and operation of a grid-connected wind-turbine with a permanent magnet synchronous generator have been investigated under asymmetrical voltage sags at the grid side. To deal with such conditions, a fast-acting control scheme is needed. It is shown in this paper that a sliding mode control can meet the challenge. In the proposed control scheme, the dc link voltage, and active/reactive powers are decoupled first so that the asymmetrical voltage sag issues can be dealt with independently. To minimize additional stress inflicted by the asymmetrical voltage sag on the power electronic converters, a feed-forward negative sequence voltage is used in the vector current control strategy. Using the developed control scheme, the wind power generation system can remain on-line to support the grid even during the asymmetrical voltage sags. The effectiveness of the proposed control scheme has been validated by extensive simulations as well as through real-time hardware based experiments on a physical wind-turbine test platform.
keywords: {Power quality;Voltage control;Wind turbines;Inverters;Generators;Sliding mode control;Control of permanent magnet synchronous generator (PMSG);sliding mode control;voltage sag;wind turbine},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8334233&isnumber=8392648


A. S. Varghese, A. Sebastian and L. S. Lalu, "Power Quality Compensation In Microgrid Using MFGTI," 2018 International Conference on Control, Power, Communication and Computing Technologies (ICCPCCT), Kannur, India, 2018, pp. 478-482, doi: 10.1109/ICCPCCT.2018.8574232.Abstract: Microgrid otherwise distributed electrical power plant, whichconsists of different energy inputs, integrated using renewable energy source (RES)based distribution generators (DG), which is on power electronics basedprototypes, so power quality issues in distribution sector are seriously increasing. If it is controlled properly, DG inverters used for mitigating power quality problems like harmonics, compensation for reactive power and unbalancing of the power distribution system. This type of inverter is called as multifunctional grid tied inverter (MFGTI). With thelatest developments in this micro grid technology, power quality can be enhancement using flexiblecontrol of MFGTI and also it can eliminates the usage of additional compensating devicesand results in a cost effective system. The Simulation performances done using MATLAB. keywords: {Inverters;Power quality;Harmonic analysis;Load modeling;Microgrids;Power system harmonics;Topology;Distribution generators (DG);Multifunctional grid tied inverter (MFGTI)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8574232&isnumber=8574218

F. Tang, J. Zhou, Z. Xin, S. Huang and P. C. Loh, "An Improved Three-Phase Voltage Source Converter With High-Performance Operation Under Unbalanced Conditions," in IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 15908-15918, 2018, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2814200.
Abstract: The unbalance of the three-phase grid-voltages/loads can cause double-frequency power ripples in the voltage source converter (VSC) system. Such power ripples can further lead to current and/or voltage ripples on the dc link, which may create instability of the system, lower its efficiency and shorten the lifetime of dc sources (e.g., batteries). Existing control solutions cannot well solve this issue and even bring collateral damage. Several hardware solutions have recently been proposed to tackle these issues, but these methods suffer from large size, high cost, and reduced system reliability. Instead, this paper proposed an improved topology to handle the problems faced by the VSC under unbalanced conditions. Although, hardware modification is also needed, it will not increase the size and cost of the system, since only one connecting line is added, which can be easily made on the power-stage printed circuit board. Moreover, the improved topology can also be used to reduce the leakage current in transformerless photovoltaic system and to eliminate the high frequency circulating current in multiple parallel converters. Theoretical analysis, simulation, and experimental results are provided to explain the principle and to validate the effectiveness of the improved topology.
keywords: {Topology;Capacitors;Voltage control;Integrated circuits;Hardware;Power generation;Frequency conversion;Grid-connected;islanded;power ripple;three-phase unbalance;voltage source converter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8315021&isnumber=8274985


S. Y. Mousazadeh Mousavi, A. Jalilian and M. Savaghebi, "Voltage unbalance compensation by a grid connected inverter using virtual impedance and admittance control loops," 2018 9th Annual Power Electronics, Drives Systems and Technologies Conference (PEDSTC), Tehran, Iran, 2018, pp. 174-179, doi: 10.1109/PEDSTC.2018.8343792.Abstract: In this paper, voltage unbalance compensation using DG interfacing inverter is proposed. By using this control method, the DG not only can inject generated power to the grid, but also can compensate the unbalance voltage of the Point of Common Coupling (PCC). A compensation scheme based on negative sequence virtual impedance or admittance is proposed. The control method is designed in stationary reference frame and is based on Proportional-Resonance (PR) controller. The compensation is achieved by using only local measurement. The simulation results in Matlab/Simulink verify the effectiveness of the proposed control method. keywords: {Impedance;Voltage control;Inverters;Admittance;Power quality;Reactive power;Voltage measurement;distributed generating (DG);voltage unbalance;power quality compensation;virtual impedance;virtual admittance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8343792&isnumber=8343761

P. Piya, M. Ebrahimi, M. Karimi-Ghartemani and S. A. Khajehoddin, "Fault Ride-Through Capability of Voltage-Controlled Inverters," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 65, no. 10, pp. 7933-7943, Oct. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2018.2803765.
Abstract: An auxiliary voltage controller is proposed for the fault ride-through (FRT) control of voltage-controlled inverters used in distributed energy resources. The proposed auxiliary controller can be added to different existing voltage control strategies with minimum or no need to alter the original structure of the voltage controller. The proposed controller prevents the transient overcurrent during grid faults and controls the exchange of real and reactive powers according to the governing grid standard. A fault detection algorithm is also implemented to detect the fault instant and determine the interval of fault during which the real and reactive power references are adjusted accordingly. Complete stability analysis of the proposed controller is performed through a new model. Successful performance of the proposed controller in achieving FRT requirements of German and Danish codes are illustrated by simulations. Extensive real-time and experimental results are also presented and discussed.
keywords: {Voltage control;Inverters;Reactive power;Power system stability;Transient analysis;Energy resources;Fault detection;Distributed energy resources;fault ride-through;low voltage ride-through;microgrid;voltage control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8286936&isnumber=8365919


D. Zhou, P. Tu and Y. Tang, "Multivector Model Predictive Power Control of Three-Phase Rectifiers With Reduced Power Ripples Under Nonideal Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 65, no. 9, pp. 6850-6859, Sept. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2018.2798583.
Abstract: Model predictive power control (MPPC) is a promising control scheme for bidirectional ac-dc rectifiers. However, the control performance of conventional MPPC (C-MPPC) deteriorates under nonideal grid conditions. Furthermore, the one-switching-vector-per-control-interval characteristic of C-MPPC leads to high ripples of control variables. To improve the steady-state performance of rectifiers under nonideal grid voltage conditions, a multivector MPPC (MV-MPPC) scheme is proposed. The proposed method presents a constant switching frequency and better steady-state control performance without increasing its sampling frequency. By selecting two active vectors and one zero vector, the range of optimal vector for active and reactive power regulation can be extended from fixed phase and magnitude to arbitrary phase and magnitude. Incorporated with a second-order generalized integrator for obtaining the quadrature component of grid voltage, the proposed method is applicable to the grid conditions where low-order harmonics exist. The preliminary calculation is adopted to avoid repetitive computation of the predicted values in the implementation of MV-MPPC, which reduces the calculation burden of the proposed scheme. A thorough experimental evaluation of the proposed scheme with the C-MPPC and duty-optimal MPPC has been conducted to validate the superiority of the proposed MV-MPPC solution.
keywords: {Reactive power;Voltage control;Steady-state;Power control;Switches;Predictive models;Frequency control;Model predictive power control (MPPC);power ripples reduction;three-phase rectifier;unbalanced grid voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8270710&isnumber=8350421


S. Mukherjee, V. R. Chowdhury, P. Shamsi and M. Ferdowsi, "Power-Angle Synchronization for Grid-Connected Converter With Fault Ride-Through Capability for Low-Voltage Grids," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 970-979, Sept. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2018.2793880.
Abstract: In this paper, the power-angle synchronization control of a grid-tied bidirectional dc-ac converter is investigated for low-voltage grids. The power flow equations for the low-voltage grid are analyzed and compensators are designed to ensure the decoupled control of active and reactive power. The proposed control system operates without the need for a phase-locked loop during balanced and unbalanced grid conditions. It is shown that during balanced conditions the compensators ensure stable operation controlling the desired power flow to and from the grid. It is also demonstrated that the compensators are immune to grid fluctuations and to a large extent can cater grid unbalanced conditions. Experimental results verify the performance of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Reactive power;Low voltage;Mathematical model;Synchronization;Phase locked loops;Voltage control;Load flow;Grid-connected converter;power-angle synchronization;low voltage grid;bi-directional power flow;proportional resonant controller;fault ride through},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8259301&isnumber=8440861


A. Khoshooei, J. S. Moghani, I. Candela and P. Rodriguez, "Control of D-STATCOM During Unbalanced Grid Faults Based on DC Voltage Oscillations and Peak Current Limitations," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 1680-1690, March-April 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2017.2785289.
Abstract: The safe operation of grid-connected power converters during abnormal condition is a key issue in order to guarantee operation and to avoid undesired trips. In this paper, different control strategies for the operation of a D-STATCOM are introduced, where the reference currents are determined in such a way that not only will none of the phase currents go over the limits, but also the dc voltage fluctuations remain in safe operation limits. Fluctuating active power interchange during unbalanced condition leads to dc voltage oscillation. Severe unbalanced condition and small dc capacitor selection (to meet the size and cost constraints) intensify the dc voltage oscillation. Therefore, the contribution of this paper relies on the combination of the dc voltage oscillations and the current limit control. The effectiveness of three proposed control strategies is verified by simulating a D-STATCOM tied to an industrial distribution network. Moreover, a scaled scenario has been reproduced experimentally which shows that the results cope well with the analytical equations and the simulation results.
keywords: {Oscillators;Automatic voltage control;Fluctuations;Reactive power;Capacitors;Voltage measurement;Current control;D-STATCOM;dc voltage oscillations;negative sequence;reactive power;safe operation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8226827&isnumber=8319543


S. Mortazavian and Y. A. -R. I. Mohamed, "Dynamic Analysis and Improved LVRT Performance of Multiple DG Units Equipped With Grid-Support Functions Under Unbalanced Faults and Weak Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 33, no. 10, pp. 9017-9032, Oct. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2017.2784435.
Abstract: Due to the increased integration of multiple distributed generation (DG) units into the distribution network, riding through short-term faults and supporting the host grid have been requested by the new grid codes in many countries. However, the literature lacks the detailed dynamic analysis and control coordination of multiple grid-connected converter-based DG units, equipped with advanced controllers in the synchronous reference frame. To fill this gap, this paper initially presents a detailed small-signal modeling framework for typical medium-voltage multi-bus power distribution systems with multiple DG units equipped with grid-support functions to operate under the unbalanced conditions. This model encompasses the positive and negative sequences of the current and voltage and is developed for three stages of the fault (i.e., before, during, and after the fault) to cover a wide range of system operating points. In addition, to precisely study the interactions among DG units, four different control modes in DG units are considered to study the system dynamics under low-voltage and unbalanced conditions and at different grid strengths. Using the proposed detailed state-space models and based on the small-signal stability analyses, different control parameters are redesigned using the eigenvalue analysis on the complete multi-DG system. As a second contribution, sensitivity analyses are performed to study the effects of different system parameters, such as line characteristics, loading levels, and unbalanced fault characteristics, on the stability of the multi-DG system under unbalanced faults. Comparative simulation and experimental results are also reported to show the accuracy and effectiveness of the theoretical analyses.
keywords: {Analytical models;Stability analysis;Power system stability;Load modeling;Power system dynamics;State-space methods;Control systems;Distributed generation (DG);grid-support;multi-DG system;small-signal analysis;stability;state-space model, unbalanced fault;unbalanced grids;weak grid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8219753&isnumber=8412378


N. Jin, C. Gan and L. Guo, "Predictive Control of Bidirectional Voltage Source Converter With Reduced Current Harmonics and Flexible Power Regulation Under Unbalanced Grid," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 1118-1131, Sept. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2017.2781692.
Abstract: This paper proposes a simplified and improved model predictive current control (MPCC) scheme for grid-connected bidirectional voltage source converter (GC-BVSC) when the unbalanced grid voltages occur. In conditions of unbalanced grid voltage, the current harmonic components of the GC-BVSC increase significantly, and twice grid-frequency ripple exist in both active power and reactive power, which influence the output power quality. To reduce harmonic currents and power fluctuations, an improved MPCC (IMPCC) method is proposed, and a two-step predictive model of GC-BVSC is put forward. The current compensation values are expressed by grid voltages and their quadrature signals that lag 90 electrical degrees in the αβ stationary coordinates system. The cost function reducing both the power ripple and current distortion is designed. Compared to conventional methods, phase-locked loop, pulse width modulation, and complex positive and negative sequence extraction of grid voltage are not required. In addition, IMPCC presents a better performance by reducing both grid-connected current harmonics and power ripple of GC-BVSC with flexible bidirectional power regulation capability. Simulation and experimental results on power electronics-professional (PE-PRO) platform verify the effectiveness of the proposed scheme under both single-phase and three-phase unbalanced grid voltages.
keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Predictive models;Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Phase locked loops;Switches;Grid-connected bidirectional voltage source converter (GC-BVSC);unbalanced grid voltages;predictive control;current harmonics;power regulation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8171755&isnumber=8440861


S. Devassy and B. Singh, "Control of a Solar Photovoltaic Integrated Universal Active Power Filter Based on a Discrete Adaptive Filter," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 14, no. 7, pp. 3003-3012, July 2018, doi: 10.1109/TII.2017.2778346.
Abstract: In this work, a novel technique based on adaptive filtering is proposed for the control of a three-phase universal active power filter with a solar photovoltaic array integrated into its dc bus. Two adaptive filters along with a zero crossing detection technique are used to extract the magnitude of a fundamental active component of distorted load currents, which is then used in estimation of a reference signal for the shunt active filter. This technique enables extraction of an active component of all three phases with reduced mathematical computation. The series active filter control is based on synchronous reference frame theory and it regulates load voltage and maintains it in-phase with voltage at point of common coupling under conditions of voltage sag and swell. The performance of the system is evaluated on an experimental prototype in the laboratory under various dynamic conditions such as sag and swell in voltage at point of common coupling, load unbalancing, and change in solar irradiation intensity.
keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Power quality;Voltage control;Renewable energy sources;Maximum power point trackers;Photovoltaic systems;Adaptive filtering;maximum power point tracking (MPPT);power quality;photovoltaic system;quadrature signal generation;universal active power filter (UAPF)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8123835&isnumber=8402070


D. Pérez-Estévez, J. Doval-Gandoy, A. G. Yepes, Ó. López and F. Baneira, "Enhanced Resonant Current Controller for Grid-Connected Converters With LCL Filter," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 3765-3778, May 2018, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2017.2770218.
Abstract: Conventional resonant controllers (RCs) are commonly used in the current control of grid-tied converters with LCL filter due to their advantages, such as zero steady-state error at both fundamental sequences, easy design process, and straightforward implementation. Nevertheless, these traditional solutions do not permit to place the closed-loop poles of the system in convenient locations when dealing with a fourth-order plant model such as the LCL filter plus the computation delay. Therefore, the reference tracking and the disturbance rejection are deficient in terms of transient behavior and depend on the LCL filter. Furthermore, an additional active damping method usually has to be designed in order to ensure stability. This paper presents an enhanced current RC with stable and fast response, negligible overshoot, good disturbance rejection, and low controller effort for grid-tied converters with LCL filter. The developed solution uses a direct discrete-time pole-placement strategy from the classical control theory (using transfer functions), involving two extra filters, to enhance the performance of the RC. In this manner, the complexity of state-space methods from modern control theory is avoided. Simulation and experimental results are provided to verify the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Computational modeling;Transfer functions;Damping;Power system stability;Delays;Stability analysis;Control theory;Current control;grid-connected converter;LCL filter;parameter sensitivity;resonant controllers (RCs)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8097014&isnumber=8281552


B. Han, H. Li, G. Wang, D. Zeng and Y. Liang, "A Virtual Multi-Terminal Current Differential Protection Scheme for Distribution Networks With Inverter-Interfaced Distributed Generators," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 5418-5431, Sept. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2017.2749450.
Abstract: The deployments of inverter-interfaced distributed generators (IIDGs) in medium voltage distribution networks may cause undesirable trips or tripping failures of conventional two-terminal current differential protective relays. It is economically and technically unfeasible to reconfigure large numbers of time-synchronized sampling clocks and communication channels for each terminal inside the protected zone. In this paper, a more accurate IIDG mathematical equivalent model is established that considers the control strategies of IIDG, and the profile characteristics of the positive-sequence voltage at each point of common coupling are investigated. Then, a real-time estimation algorithm is introduced for the fault current contribution of grid-connected IIDGs. On this basis, this paper proposes a novel virtual multi-terminal current differential protection scheme. This scheme only necessitates exchanging the electrical quantities between the protective relays at both terminals via an existing two-terminal pilot channel, thus reducing the cost and requirements for communications. The feasibility of the proposed protection is demonstrated in both the PSCAD/EMTDC simulation platform and the RTDS hardware experimental laboratory. A comparison of the proposed protection alongside the conventional protection is also presented. Test results indicate that the proposed protection is widely applicable to various fault conditions, thereby improving the sensitivity and selectivity of conventional protection schemes.
keywords: {Fault currents;Protective relaying;Estimation;Sensitivity;Power grids;Generators;Current differential relays;current estimation;inverter-interfaced distributed generators (IIDGs);medium voltage (MV) distribution network;virtual multi-terminal protection},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8026155&isnumber=8443168


S. Yan, M. -H. Wang, T. -B. Yang, S. -C. Tan, B. Chaudhuri and S. Y. R. Hui, "Achieving Multiple Functions of Three-Phase Electric Springs in Unbalanced Three-Phase Power Systems Using the Instantaneous Power Theory," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 5784-5795, July 2018, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2017.2748221.
Abstract: Three-phase electric spring (3-ph ES) has recently been proposed as a fast demand response technology for applications in unbalanced power systems fed with a mixture of conventional and renewable power generation. Using the instantaneous power theory as the theoretical framework, this paper presents the criteria and conditions for minimizing the average and oscillating power of the 3-ph ES for the first time. A detailed analysis of the use of 3-ph ES is included for providing multiple control objectives of voltage regulation and power balancing of the 3-ph power system, and minimization of the average and oscillating ac power of the ES. A corresponding control scheme implementable in a single controller is included and explained. The control scheme has been practically verified with experiments.
keywords: {Voltage control;Springs;Power system stability;Power quality;Reactive power;Power generation;Inverters;Electric spring (ES);instantaneous power theory;multifunctional control;power balance;voltage stabilization},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8023998&isnumber=8320030


Y. Lu, G. Xiao, X. Wang and F. Blaabjerg, "Grid Synchronization With Selective Harmonic Detection Based on Generalized Delayed Signal Superposition," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 3938-3949, May 2018, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2017.2721461.
Abstract: Grid synchronization has always been an important challenge for grid-connected converters under extremely distorted grid conditions. Moreover, how to quickly and accurately extract multiple required harmonics is also essential for control systems. In this paper, two types of generalized delayed signal superposition (GDSS) operators capable of extracting any arbitrary harmonic component out of an input signal are derived. In order to show the benefits of GDSS operators, a new grid information estimation concept based on multiple GDSS operators (referred to as MGDSS-PLL) is proposed to track the fundamental and multiple targeted harmonics under single-phase and three-phase adverse grid conditions. MGDSS-PLL can be flexibly tuned to extract any harmonic components according to specific requirements within one fundamental period, and it also exhibits great robustness to grid disturbances. Simulations and experimental results are presented for verifying the performance of the MGDSS-PLL.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Synchronization;Phase locked loops;Robustness;Frequency response;Delayed signal superposition;grid synchronization;phase-locked loop;selective harmonic detection},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7962231&isnumber=8281552


E. Oviedo, N. Vázquez and R. Femat, "Synchronization Technique of Grid-Connected Power Converters Based on a Limit Cycle Oscillator," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 65, no. 1, pp. 709-717, Jan. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2017.2703655.
Abstract: This paper shows a synchronization technique of power converters based on a limit cycle oscillator (LCO) and a frequency-locked loop (FLL), which makes the system frequency adaptive. The proposed technique LCO-FLL offers a high degree of immunity and robustness against swells, sags, harmonics, and phase-frequency shift. Furthermore, the LCO-FLL has the advantage of performing the synchrony with the grid from any initial condition set for LCO, ensuring an acceptable transient onto the synchronization process. Other advantages of the proposed scheme are that it does not require a phase-locked loop or trigonometric functions and it gives useful information to estimate the positive- and negative-sequence components in a three-phase system with a highly polluted grid scenario. In this paper, a local stability analysis of the LCO-FLL is presented. The behavior and performance of the proposed technique are compared with synchronization techniques by means of experimental results. Furthermore, a three-phase application of the synchronization technique is evaluated experimentally.
keywords: {Synchronization;Frequency locked loops;Oscillators;Limit-cycles;Liquid crystal on silicon;Harmonic analysis;Phase locked loops;Frequency estimation;frequency-locked loop (FLL);grid synchronization;nonlinear oscillator;sequence-components detection},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7926386&isnumber=8113651


C. Ren, X. Han, L. Wang, Y. Yang, W. Qin and P. Wang, "High-Performance Three-Phase PWM Converter With a Reduced DC-Link Capacitor Under Unbalanced AC Voltage Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 65, no. 2, pp. 1041-1050, Feb. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2017.2688962.
Abstract: A high-performance three-phase pulse width modulation (PWM) converter with reduced dc-link capacitor under unbalanced ac voltage conditions is proposed in this paper. The unique feature of the converter lies in that sinusoidal symmetrical ac currents and ripple free dc voltage can be achieved simultaneously without using a bulky capacitor, which was thought to be a dilemma in the past. The control scheme is implemented in an α-β frame, so the complex rotate transformations are avoided, and it does not require the extraction of positive and negative sequence currents, which simplifies the control algorithm. A two-quadrant operation active power compensator together with its controller is developed to suppress the voltage ripple in the dc-link. Compared with the passive compensation method, the compensator is equipped with a smaller capacitor to reduce the system size, weight, and cost. Moreover, the compensator could be integrated with the conventional three-phase three-leg PWM converter seamlessly. The effectiveness of the proposed control schemes is verified by the experiment results.
keywords: {Pulse width modulation converters;Capacitors;Voltage control;Pulse width modulation;Current control;Phase locked loops;Distributed power generation;AC–DC power converter;current control;distributed  power  generation;harmonic  suppression;unbalanced network},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7888912&isnumber=8186327


J. Jia, G. Yang and A. H. Nielsen, "A Review on Grid-Connected Converter Control for Short-Circuit Power Provision Under Grid Unbalanced Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 649-661, April 2018, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2017.2682164.
Abstract: As an increasing amount of converter-based generation on power electronics is connected to power systems, transmission system operators are revising the grid-connection requirements to streamline the connectivity of the devices to maintain security of supply. Converter-based generation can behave significantly different from the traditional alternators under grid faults. In order to evaluate the potential impact of the future converter-based power systems on protective relays, it is necessary to consider diverse current control strategies of voltage-source converters (VSCs) under unbalanced faults as the performance of converters primarily depends on their control objectives. In this paper, current control strategies of VSCs under unbalanced faults for short-circuit power provision are reviewed in two groups, namely, power-characteristic-oriented and voltage-support-oriented control strategy, respectively. As the fault current provided by converters should be restricted within secure operation limits considering semiconductor capabilities, converter current limit issue is also discussed.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Power generation;Voltage control;Current control;Power system stability;Fault currents;Converter control;fault ride through;reactive power;short circuit current;unbalanced faults},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7878663&isnumber=8322364


K. Jia, C. Gu, Z. Xuan, L. Li and Y. Lin, "Fault Characteristics Analysis and Line Protection Design Within a Large-Scale Photovoltaic Power Plant," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 4099-4108, Sept. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2017.2648879.
Abstract: Centralized photovoltaic (PV) systems have different fault characteristics from distributed PV systems due to the different system structures and controls. This makes the fault analysis and protection methods used in distribution networks with distributed PV not suitable for a centralized PV power plant. Therefore, a consolidated expression for the fault current within a PV power plant under different controls was calculated considering the fault response of the PV array. Then, supported by the fault current analysis and the field-testing data, the overcurrent relay (OCR) performance was evaluated in the collection system of an 850 MW PV power plant. It reveals that the OCRs at PV side on overhead lines may malfunction. In this case, a new relay scheme was proposed using directional distance elements. In PSCAD/EMTDC, a detailed PV system model was built and verified using the field-testing data. Simulation results indicate that the proposed relay scheme could effectively solve the problems under variant fault scenarios and PV plant output levels.
keywords: {Fault currents;Power generation;Inverters;Relays;Optical character recognition software;Oscillators;Centralized photovoltaic power plant;distance relay;fault current analysis;overcurrent relay (OCR);relay scheme},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7807355&isnumber=8443168


I. Ali and S. M. Suhail Hussain, "Communication Design for Energy Management Automation in Microgrid," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 2055-2064, May 2018, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2016.2606131.
Abstract: Real-time energy management automation in microgrid can improve energy security, reliability, efficiency, and power quality but is a challenging issue as it requires a robust, deterministic, and interoperable communication architecture. IEC 61850-based communication architecture has the potential to be the promising solution for microgrid automation. Hence, this paper addresses this challenge by proposing IEC 61850-based design and modeling of IEDs for different types of distributed energy resources and a new logical node for controllable loads along with the design of structure and size of communication messages required for energy management automation in microgrid for the first time. This paper demonstrates the validation and implementation of the proposed design and modeling through a real-time system-in-the-loop simulation for a test microgrid. Finally, to justify the feasibility of the proposed design and modeling, dynamic performance of the microgrid communication architecture is evaluated in terms of end-to-end delay and throughput for different network topological configurations. This paper intends to provide a platform to model, configure, and evaluate a promising future standards-based communication for microgrid automation.
keywords: {Microgrids;IEC Standards;Load modeling;Density estimation robust algorithm;Energy management;Switching circuits;Automation;Communication network architecture;distributed energy resources (DERs);IEC 61850;microgrid;energy management;automation;OPNET modeler},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7560616&isnumber=8341523


C. Wang, J. Wu, D. Yang and J. Zhao, "Suppressing power oscillation based on VSG," 2017 IEEE 2nd Information Technology, Networking, Electronic and Automation Control Conference (ITNEC), Chengdu, China, 2017, pp. 336-339, doi: 10.1109/ITNEC.2017.8285001.Abstract: To stabilize the voltage and frequency, virtual synchronous generator (VSG) control of renewable energy interfaced inverter is recommended. However, traditional VSG control will lead to unbalanced three-phase current and power oscillation under unbalanced grid voltage. To solve these problems, an improved control strategy is proposed. Firstly, problems with traditional VSG control strategy under unbalanced grid voltage and its differences from traditional grid-connected inverter control strategy are demonstrated. Secondly, under dq coordinate system, the balance current VSG control strategy is used to obtain the reference positive sequence current commands which can decrease negative sequence current. Current is transformed to be balanced. Thirdly, to damp power fluctuation, negative sequence current is calculated. Based on above The current inner control loop is designed. Finally, the validity and effectiveness of the proposed control strategy is verified through the Matlab/Simulink simulation results. keywords: {Voltage control;Synchronous generators;Oscillators;Mathematical model;Inverters;Reactive power;Frequency control;virtual synchronous generator;unbalanced grid voltage;negative sequence current;power fluctuation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8285001&isnumber=8284746

M. Naresh and R. K. Tripathi, "Operation and Control of Doubly Fed Induction Generator Based Wind Energy System Using FPGA," 2017 14th IEEE India Council International Conference (INDICON), Roorkee, India, 2017, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/INDICON.2017.8487957.Abstract: Now a days, the renewable energy sources based on wind energy is one of the most accomplished system. In this paper, an operation and control of the grid side converter of doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) connected to wind turbine to improve the power flow control, stator and rotor control is achieved during unbalance load conditions, the RSC and GSC that are connected back-to-back through a dc-link capacitor. The proposed system is DFIG based on wind energy system using FPGA, is synchronized to phase locked loop (PLL) to a reference frequency generated inside the system. The supercapacitor based storage system is used for balance the load at intermittent conditions to satisfy above features. The whole research work and analysis has been carried out in MATLAB/SIMULINK environment. keywords: {Phase locked loops;Doubly fed induction generators;Wind turbines;Stators;Rotors;Field programmable gate arrays;Wind energy;DFIG;FPGA;Grid Connected System;Power Control;PLL;Wind Turbine},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8487957&isnumber=8487231

X. Guo, H. -p. Ren and J. Li, "Fixed frequency model predictive control for three-phase VSR under unbalanced grid condition," IECON 2017 - 43rd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Beijing, China, 2017, pp. 5138-5143, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2017.8216888.Abstract: Under the three-phase unbalanced grid condition, the commonly used controller design methods of three-phase voltage source rectifiers (VSR) are based on the instantaneous power model and the current and voltage double-closed loop control structure. The inner current loop proportional integral (PI) controllers are designed for the positive- and negative-sequence current components, separately, therefore, there are eight mutual influenced control parameters need to be tuned, which is very complicated. In this paper, a current loop fixed frequency model predictive control (MPC) method is proposed for the three-phase VSR under the unbalanced voltage input condition. As compared to the traditional double-closed loop PI control structure based on the conventional instantaneous power model, the proposed method uses less control parameters with easy tuning rule, and simple control structure. The proposed current loop MPC control strategy can effectively restrain the active power oscillation and the current harmonics in both balanced and unbalanced grid input condition, which is proved by both simulation and experiment results. keywords: {High-temperature superconductors;Three-phase VSR;unbalanced grid condition;instantaneous power theory;model predictive control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8216888&isnumber=8216002

X. Du, S. Gu, G. Wang, P. Sun, H. -M. Tai and Y. Ji, "A simple current control method for three-phase VSC in DSRF under unbalanced grid condition," IECON 2017 - 43rd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Beijing, China, 2017, pp. 6841-6846, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2017.8217195.Abstract: Injection of both positive and negative sequence currents is desirable for three-phase voltage source converters under unbalanced grid fault condition. However, the 2nd order oscillation exists in the positive and negative sequence synchronous reference frame. Several approaches have been reported to cope with this 2nd order oscillation. In this paper, a simple yet efficient control method in double synchronous reference frame (DSRF) is proposed. The proposed method does not need additional filter or decoupling circuit, and does not require signal reconstruction for the current reference. Theoretical analysis and simulation study show that the proposed control method not only achieve zero steady state error, but also exhibits faster transient response. Experimental results verify the performance of the proposed current control method in DSRF. keywords: {Current control;Oscillators;Steady-state;Voltage control;Transient analysis;Transient response;Phase locked loops;voltage source converter;current control;synchronous reference frame;decoupling;unbalanced},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8217195&isnumber=8216002

M. Chen, X. Xiao, C. Yuan and S. Tao, "Flexible power control of virtual synchronous generators under unbalanced grid voltage conditions," 2017 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Cincinnati, OH, USA, 2017, pp. 2881-2888, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2017.8096533.Abstract: The stability problems of power electronics interfaced distributed generators with low inertia and damping can be well solved by the virtual synchronous generator technologies. However, when the grid voltages become unbalanced, oscillations in both the real and reactive power will arise with unbalanced voltages and currents of VSG being noticed. This paper proposed a flexible power control method of virtual synchronous generator under unbalanced grid conditions. Firstly the basic principle of the traditional virtual synchronous generator control method is briefly introduced. Then three different control strategies are presented based on control of negative-sequence voltage at PCC in d-q frame. Performance of these three control strategies are compared in PSCAD/EMTDC simulations. Finally, a RTDS-based real-time digital and physical close-loop experimental test bed is built to verify the proposed control strategy furtherly. keywords: {Voltage control;Synchronous generators;Power control;Oscillators;Damping;Reactive power;Power generation;distributed power generation;virtual synchronous generator;unbalanced grid voltages;power oscillation;positive and negative sequence components;energy storage system},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8096533&isnumber=8095743

S. Nagai, K. Kusaka and J. -I. Itoh, "ZVRT capability of minimized-LCL-filter-based single-phase grid-tied inverter with high-speed gate-block," 2017 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Cincinnati, OH, USA, 2017, pp. 1757-1764, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2017.8096007.Abstract: This paper proposes a Zero-Voltage Ride-Through (ZVRT) method and an LCL filter optimization design method to meet the Fault Ride Through (FRT) requirements for a single-phase grid-tied inverter with a minimized LCL filter. The inverter output current overshoots at a voltage sag when the small LCL filter is used. As a proposed method in this paper, the inverter output current overshoot is suppressed with the high-speed gateblock at the grid voltage drop and recovery. In order to suppress the overshoot current which is faster than switching period, this paper clarifies the design method of the minimized LCL filter to meet the FRT requirements. In particular, the designed LCL filter results that the interconnected inductor impedance is 1.0% of the inverter normalized impedance, whereas the filter inductor is %Z = 0.78%. Moreover, the inverter output current overshoot rate is suppressed to 37.2% by the high-speed gate-block and the designed LCL filter. Therefore, it is possible to meet the FRT requirements with the proposed ZVRT method and the designed LCL filter. keywords: {Inverters;Logic gates;Inductors;Power quality;Delays;Inductance;grid-tied inverter;FRT capability;minimized LCL filter;high-speed gate-block},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8096007&isnumber=8095743

H. Geng, T. Zou and A. Chandra, "Fast repetitive control Scheme for shunt active power filter in Synchronous Rotational Frame," 2017 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting, Cincinnati, OH, USA, 2017, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/IAS.2017.8101732.Abstract: This paper proposes a fast repetitive control (FRC) scheme for the shunt active power filter (SAPF) in the three-phase three-wire system, which can improve the dynamic response performance of the SAPF compared with the conventional RC strategy (CRC). The FRC is designed in the synchronous rotational frame (SRF) which can reduce the repetitive period to one-sixth of the fundamental cycle. A fractional delay (FD) filter is employed to eliminate the tracking error due to the grid frequency variations. To improve the performance of the SAPF in weak grid situation, this paper also proposed a close loop harmonic detection scheme so that the reference value can track the varied harmonic currents rapidly. Compared with the conventional open loop detection scheme, the compensation performance is highly improved. Simulations and experiments verified the proposed scheme. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Delays;Active filters;Current control;Tracking loops;Shunt active power filter;fast repetitive control;sliding DFT},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8101732&isnumber=8101679

W. Choi, W. Lee and B. Sarlioglu, "Performance evaluation of shunt-series switched multi-functional grid-connected inverter for voltage regulation," 2017 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Cincinnati, OH, USA, 2017, pp. 2996-3003, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2017.8096550.Abstract: The objective of this research is to analyze and evaluate the performance of the proposed shunt-series switched multi-functional grid-connected inverter (SSS-MFGCI) for mitigating unbalanced voltage sag and swell problem in distributed generation system or microgrid. Three quantitative performance evaluation factors, namely fault level factor, rating factor, and grid stiffness factor, are proposed to evaluate the effectiveness of MFGCI on voltage regulation. Proposed factors are also used to compare the proposed SSS-MFGCI with conventional MFGCI regarding compensable fault level and dependency of MFGCI performance on the grid stiffness for different fault types. Hence, this research presents a comprehensive analysis on how to evaluate the performance of MFGCI on voltage regulation. keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Power quality;Impedance;Integrated circuits;Inverters;Mathematical model;Fault level factor;grid-connected inverter;grid stiffness factor;magnitude factor;multi-functional grid-connected inverter;rating factor;unbalance factor;voltage regulation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8096550&isnumber=8095743

W. Kou and S. -Y. Park, "Generalized direct phase-coordinates control of inverter-interfaced distributed energy resources on fault ride through strategies," 2017 North American Power Symposium (NAPS), Morgantown, WV, USA, 2017, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/NAPS.2017.8107261.Abstract: This paper presents two improvements concerning a newly-developed fault ride through (FRT) strategy based on the direct phase-coordinates approach for the distributed energy resources (DER). Taking into account the unsymmetrical three-phase voltage phasors at the point of common coupling, one improvement is on eliminating the double-frequency output power ripples through a generalized reference current calculation. Furthermore, the FRT strategy application scenario has been generalized from the single DER connection to the multiple DERs (multi-DER) integration. The other improvement is a cooperative fault current management scheme to minimize the total fault current contribution from the multi-DER. Simulation results are presented to evaluate the effectiveness of the generalized approach under the unbalanced fault condition. keywords: {Fault currents;Voltage measurement;Impedance;Circuit faults;Energy resources;Power generation;Standards;distributed energy resource;inverter-based interface;fault ride through;direct phase-coordinates approach;grid-connected converter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8107261&isnumber=8107166

Z. Ali, N. Chritofides, L. Hadjidemetriou and E. Kyriakides, "A computationally efficient current controller for simultaneous injection of both positive and negative sequences," 2017 19th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications (EPE'17 ECCE Europe), Warsaw, Poland, 2017, pp. P.1-P.10, doi: 10.23919/EPE17ECCEEurope.2017.8099011.Abstract: Reducing the required processing time of current controllers used in grid side converter (GSC) of renewable energy systems (RES) allows to optimize the limited processing resources and at the same time minimize the cost of the processors required. In addition, the transient behavior of these controllers must be fast and with low overshoot for the GSC to support the grid during off-nominal grid conditions and according to the grid code requirements imposed. For a converter to respond accordingly, the injection of both positive and negative sequences of fundamental current under off-nominal grid conditions is necessary. The work presents a GSC current controller that meets all modern grid requirements expected. It has been developed by introducing two modifications to an existing current controller. Experiments and simulations have been performed to validate the operation of the proposed current controller in terms of complexity and performance. Consequently, the new current controller requires 22% less processing time and can achieve a faster and more accurate response in order to meet modern grid code requirements under off-nominal conditions. keywords: {Oscillators;Computational complexity;Harmonic distortion;Voltage control;Computational efficiency;Europe;Current measurement;Current Controller;Computational Complexity;Grid Disturbances;Renewable Energy Integration;Grid Side Converter Control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8099011&isnumber=8098914

N. Honeth and L. Nordström, "Distributed Topology Inference for Electric Power Grids," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 3206-3215, Dec. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TII.2017.2740933.
Abstract: This paper proposes an algorithm, including a multiagent-based system architecture, for distributed inference of power grid topologies. The core algorithm is based on processing measurement time series, or fingerprints, using statistical correlation to determine the connectivity between nodes. Notably, the method and proposed system architecture is completely distributed. The solution has been developed with contemporary IEC 61850 compliant substation automation systems in mind. This paper includes a presentation of the theoretical foundation for the distributed topology inference algorithm as well as the proposed system architecture. A case study utilizing the RBTS bus 4 model is included to demonstrate the capabilities of the method under static as well as transient situations. Furthermore, the results and analysis of the performance and scalability of the algorithm are presented. The main contribution of this paper is an application to infer the electrical connectivity of power grids without central functionality.
keywords: {Electrical engineering;Network topology;Substations;Inference algorithms;Decentralized control;Process control;Multi-agent systems;Overlay networks;Electrical engineering;electrical topology;IEC 61850;multiagent systems (MASs);real-time operation;overlay networks;substation automation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8012517&isnumber=8167035


M. Zhu, G. Li and D. Xie, "Adaptive multi-variable coordinated control and safe operating characteristics for MMC under unbalanced AC grid," 2017 20th International Conference on Electrical Machines and Systems (ICEMS), Sydney, NSW, Australia, 2017, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ICEMS.2017.8056035.Abstract: In the grid-connected modular multilevel converter (MMC), grid faults not only cause the current to be higher than the rated current, but also bring the unbalanced issues to the inner unbalanced currents and arm voltages. In this paper, a multi-variable coordinated control method which is employed in the d-q coordinate is presented. First, a parameter is introduced in the calculation of the grid currents references. Afterwards, the relationships between the system operating parameters and the parameter are derived. Furthermore, the influences of parameter on the safe operation areas are analyzed in details. In addition, the P-Q diagrams of the MMC are deduced in terms of the safe operating areas under unbalanced conditions, and an adaptive multi-variable coordinated control is proposed. Finally, the simulating results from MATLAB/Simulink are presented to verify the theoretical analysis. keywords: {Reactive power;Oscillators;Mathematical model;Capacitors;Voltage control;Bridge circuits;Modular multilevel converters;Modular multilevel converter (MMC);unbalanced grid voltages;multi-variable;coordinated control method},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8056035&isnumber=8055914

N. G. Kulkarni and V. B. Virulkar, "DC link voltage control of power conditioning unit during LVRT," 2017 International Conference on Energy, Communication, Data Analytics and Soft Computing (ICECDS), Chennai, India, 2017, pp. 2304-2308, doi: 10.1109/ICECDS.2017.8389864.Abstract: The increasing demand of photovoltaic (PV) solar systems and use of power conditioning unit (PCU) in these systems lead to new requirements for the operation and management of the distribution grid, especially during low voltage ride through (LVRT) operation period. LVRT requires PV system to remain as grid connected and it will help to maintain grid voltage and frequency stable during the unexpected condition. This paper proposes a dc-link voltage control of power conditioning unit during LVRT operation. To observe the changes in grid voltage during the LVRT, the high modulation ratio (HMR) is maintained by controlling dc link voltage to attenuate the high frequency harmonics injected into grid. The low voltage operation affects the power quality at point of common coupling (PCC), as a result of the reduced grid current quality induced by the oscillated dc-link voltage. The dc-link voltage can be decreased to a particular value to increase HMR when needed, without weakening the LVRT capability, in order to attenuate the higher order harmonics of output waveform. The control method suggested here will attenuate the double-line frequency dc-link voltage ripple during the asymmetrical grid faults. Due to this, the dc-link voltage will attain the safe operational range value by transferring power ripple to the front-end dc input source. The results are verified in MATLAB/SIMULINK. keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Circuit faults;Low voltage;Power control;Photovoltaic systems;Inverters;Power conditioning unit;dc-link voltage control;low voltage ride through;grid},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8389864&isnumber=8389494

E. Afshari et al., "Control Strategy for Three-Phase Grid-Connected PV Inverters Enabling Current Limitation Under Unbalanced Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 64, no. 11, pp. 8908-8918, Nov. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2017.2733481.
Abstract: Power quality and voltage control are among the most important aspects of the grid-connected power converter operation under faults. Nonsinusoidal current may be injected during unbalanced voltage sag, and active or/and reactive power may include double frequency content. This paper introduces a novel control strategy to mitigate the double grid frequency oscillations in the active power and dc-link voltage of the two-stage three-phase grid-connected photovoltaic (PV) inverters during unbalanced faults. With the proposed control method, PV inverter injects sinusoidal currents under unbalanced grid faults. In addition, an efficient and easy-to-implement current limitation method is introduced, which can effectively limit the injected currents to the rated value during faults. In this case, the fault-ride-through operation is ensured, and it will not trigger the overcurrent protection. A non-maximum power point tracking (non-MPPT) operation mode is proposed for the dc-dc converter. The mode is enabled under severe faults when the converter cannot handle the maximum PV power. Finally, experimental validation is provided by implementing a method in an experimental setup, including a 2 kW PV inverter.
keywords: {Reactive power;Inverters;Oscillators;Voltage control;DC-DC power converters;Power quality;Frequency control;Active power oscillations;current limitation;dc-link voltage oscillations;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT);photovoltaic (PV) systems},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7997753&isnumber=8062949


J. Zhou, F. Tang, Z. Xin, S. Huang and P. C. Loh, "Active power decoupling methods for three-phase grid-connected converters under unbalanced grid conditions," 2017 IEEE 18th Workshop on Control and Modeling for Power Electronics (COMPEL), Stanford, CA, USA, 2017, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/COMPEL.2017.8013303.Abstract: The grid-voltage unbalance can result in a double-frequency component in the output power of a three-phase grid-connected converter, which significantly degrades the system performance. To address this issue, the power decoupling concept, which was previously developed for the single-phase system to handle the double-frequency power oscillation, is applied to the three-phase system in this paper. To begin with, three topologies are proposed to implement the power decoupling function in the three-phase converter system, which can maintain dc-link voltage constant while ac grid current balanced under unbalanced grid voltage through absorbing the double-frequency power component. Then, the control system realization of each power decoupling topology is presented and their working principles are described in detail. Furthermore, three prototypes are developed under different types of unbalanced grid voltage condition to evaluate the performance of the proposed methods. Experimental results are eventually provided to validate the effectiveness of the three proposed schemes. keywords: {Capacitors;Topology;Power control;Voltage control;Oscillators;Legged locomotion;Harmonic analysis;grid voltage unbalance;three-phase grid-connected converter;active power decoupling;power oscillation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8013303&isnumber=8013274

Z. Ali, N. Christofides, L. Hadjidemetriou and E. Kyriakides, "An advanced current controller with reduced complexity and improved performance under abnormal grid conditions," 2017 IEEE Manchester PowerTech, Manchester, UK, 2017, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/PTC.2017.7981082.Abstract: Electricity grid regulations are frequently revised in order to accommodate the ever-increasing penetration of distributed renewable energy systems (RES). Interconnected RES are required to operate conditionally under normal and abnormal grid conditions. Furthermore, RES are required to have fault ride through (FRT) capability so that they can provide voltage and frequency support to the grid. The FRT operation may necessitate the injection of positive, negative or both sequence components of current. Therefore, appropriate control techniques are needed that can perform under all grid conditions (faults and harmonics) without violating the grid codes. A benchmarking comparison between two existing current control techniques motivated the proposal of a new current controller with an improved performance and lower computational complexity. The proposed controller allows accurate injection of pure sinusoidal positive, negative or both sequences currents under normal and abnormal grid scenarios. The proposed control strategy can work with considerably lower computational complexity and with improved response as compared to the two existing controllers. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Oscillators;Harmonic distortion;Voltage control;Computational complexity;Current control;Phase locked loops;Current Controller;Harmonic Compensation;Fault Ride Through (FRT);Computational Complexity},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7981082&isnumber=7979746

H. Liu, J. Zhou, P. Li and W. Wei, "An improved droop control strategy of three-phase inverter for grid voltage unbalance compensation," 2017 IEEE 3rd International Future Energy Electronics Conference and ECCE Asia (IFEEC 2017 - ECCE Asia), Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 2017, pp. 110-115, doi: 10.1109/IFEEC.2017.7992427.Abstract: In this paper, an improved control strategy for three-phase inverter is proposed, which ensures three-phase output voltage symmetry under unbalanced grid voltage. Firstly, the positive and negative sequence separation module is used to obtain unbalance output voltage and current during the grid faults. By calculating output power of the inverter, an improved P-ƒ, Q-U and Q-G droop control strategy is designed to adjust droop curve real-timely. Then three-phase symmetrical voltage reference could be generated. In order to improve the stability of parallel three-phase inverter system, the virtual impedance is further applied. The simulation results presented verify the feasibility of the improved control scheme. Experimental tests and analysis have been provided in this paper. keywords: {Voltage control;Impedance;Inverters;Pulse width modulation;Reactive power;Active filters;Control systems;unbalanced grid;positive and negative sequence voltage;second order generalized integrator;virtual impedance;droop control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7992427&isnumber=7992033

H. Khan, S. J. Chacko, B. G. Fernandes and A. Kulkarni, "An integrated controller to perform LVRT operation in PV systems connected to a LV grid during balanced and unbalanced faults," 2017 IEEE 3rd International Future Energy Electronics Conference and ECCE Asia (IFEEC 2017 - ECCE Asia), Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 2017, pp. 2002-2007, doi: 10.1109/IFEEC.2017.7992358.Abstract: For high PV penetration, grid ancillary services such as dynamic voltage support and low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) operation are recommended by network operators. This paper proposes an integrated controller for LVRT capability of a three-phase grid-tied PV system connected to a LV grid. Generally X/R ratio is low for LV grids, therefore the active power injection is given higher priority than the reactive power injection during grid faults. The proposed controller includes a) reactive power support with active power curtailment (RPS-APC) controller for dynamic grid support, b) decoupled double synchronous reference frame (DDSRF) based positive and negative sequence extractor, c) dual synchronous reference frame (DSRF) based current controller for unbalanced current injection, d) peak current limiter to regulate the current within inverter rating, and e) modified protections based on LVRT curve. The performance of the integrated controller under different symmetrical and unsymmetrical grid faults is evaluated and simulation results are provided. keywords: {Reactive power;Voltage control;Inverters;Power system stability;Power quality;Oscillators;Maximum power point trackers;Distribution Grid;Photo-Voltaic (PV);Low-voltage ride-through;Decoupled double synchronous reference frame (DDSRF)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7992358&isnumber=7992033

F. Blaabjerg and K. Ma, "Wind Energy Systems," in Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 105, no. 11, pp. 2116-2131, Nov. 2017, doi: 10.1109/JPROC.2017.2695485.
Abstract: Wind power now represents a major and growing source of renewable energy. Large wind turbines (with capacities of up to 6–8 MW) are widely installed in power distribution networks. Increasing numbers of onshore and offshore wind farms, acting as power plants, are connected directly to power transmission networks at the scale of hundreds of megawatts. As its level of grid penetration has begun to increase dramatically, wind power is starting to have a significant impact on the operation of the modern grid system. Advanced power electronics technologies are being introduced to improve the characteristics of the wind turbines, and make them more suitable for integration into the power grid. Meanwhile, there are some emerging challenges that still need to be addressed. This paper provides an overview and discusses some trends in the power electronics technologies used for wind power generation. First, the state-of-the-art technology and global market are generally discussed. Several important wind turbine concepts are discussed, along with power electronics solutions either for individual wind turbines or for entire wind farms. Some technology challenges and future solutions for power electronics in wind turbine systems are also addressed.
keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Power electronics;Wind power generation;Generators;Power grids;Wind energy;Rotors;Wind turbines;Smart grids;Topology;Wind farms;Control;grid codes;power electronics;power semiconductor devices;topology;wind farm;wind power generation;wind turbine system},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7927779&isnumber=8074545


A. Kanaan, F. Sebaaly and H. Y. Kanaan, "FCS-MPC with PNSC reference generation method for a 3L-NPC inverter under grid faults," 2017 11th IEEE International Conference on Compatibility, Power Electronics and Power Engineering (CPE-POWERENG), Cadiz, Spain, 2017, pp. 223-228, doi: 10.1109/CPE.2017.7915173.Abstract: Nowadays, grid faults consist anxious problem for grid inverters controller design. Conventional controllers are based on linear regulators such as PI and PR. This paper proposes a model predictive algorithm based on PNSC reference generation method to control the 3L-NPC inverter under grid voltage sags. The novel algorithm allows the easy inclusion of system nonlinearities, thus no additional fine tuning parameters are required. Moreover, no additional phase-locked loop synchronization technique is needed, reducing system complexity. A SOGI filter is added for voltage sequences extraction. The overall discrete model of the system is developed. Two-step horizon MPC algorithm is introduced for time delay compensation. Simulation results show the advantages of the proposed technique in terms of low harmonic line current content, low switching frequency operation, DC voltages balancing, good dynamic response and robustness to grid sags. keywords: {Inverters;Cost function;Power harmonic filters;Capacitors;Switches;Oscillators;Reactive power;Model predictive control;SOGI filter;PNSC reference generation method;3L-NPC grid inverter;grid faults},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915173&isnumber=7915133

S. Nagai, K. Kusaka and J. -i. Itoh, "FRT capability of single-phase grid-connected inverter with minimized interconnected inductor," 2017 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Tampa, FL, USA, 2017, pp. 2802-2809, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2017.7931095.Abstract: This paper proposes a fault-ride-through (FRT) method for a single-phase grid-connected inverter with a minimized inductor by reducing the inverter output current overshoot. When a low-inductance interconnected inductor is used, the inverter output current overshoot becomes very high at a voltage sag and a voltage recovery. Therefore, a grid-voltage fault stops the operation of the grid-connected inverter due to an overcurrent protection. In the proposed method, the current overshoot is suppressed by using a momentary gate-block with a high-performance disturbance observer. Moreover, the inverter output current in steady state is also stabilized by using the high-performance disturbance observer. Consequently, by using the proposed method, the grid-connected inverter continues to operate without interruption during the fault of the grid voltage. The maximum overshoot rate of the inductor current at the voltage recovery moment after fault clearance is reduced from 534% in the conventional method to 46.5% in the proposed method. keywords: {Inverters;Inductors;Logic gates;Observers;Power quality;Delays;Field programmable gate arrays;Grid-connected inverter;Fault ride through;Gate-block;Disturbance observer;Interconnected inductor},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7931095&isnumber=7930596

S. Mukherjee, P. Shamsi and M. Ferdowsi, "Resonant controller based power-angle synchronization control in low voltage grids," 2017 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Tampa, FL, USA, 2017, pp. 454-458, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2017.7930733.Abstract: In this paper, power-angle synchronization based control of grid connected converter is studied for low voltage grids under grid unbalanced conditions. The active and reactive power controllers used for power-angle synchronization are augmented with resonant peaks to suppress the oscillations in power under grid unbalanced conditions. The controller structure and design are presented. Simulation and experimental results presented validate the proposed scheme. keywords: {Reactive power;Synchronization;Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Oscillators;Low voltage;Resonant frequency;Grid-connected converter;power-angle synchronization;low voltage grid;proportional resonant controller;fault ride through},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7930733&isnumber=7930596

R. S. R. Chilipi, N. Al Sayari, K. H. Al Hosani and A. R. Beig, "Adaptive Notch Filter-Based Multipurpose Control Scheme for Grid-Interfaced Three-Phase Four-Wire DG Inverter," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 4015-4027, July-Aug. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2017.2676098.
Abstract: The power electronic converter and its control system form an integral part of distributed generation (DG) systems interfacing renewable energy sources to the utility network. This paper proposes an adaptive notch filter-based multipurpose control scheme for grid interfacing DG inverter under corrupted grid conditions. The proposed control scheme uses a frequency adaptive sequence components extractor, which is capable of extracting instantaneous symmetrical components and harmonic components of three-phase signals. The DG inverter in this study consists of three single-phase voltage source inverters with common dc bus and coupled to utility grid via three single-phase transformers. The proposed control scheme enables the DG inverter to perform multiple tasks such as reference power injection to grid, low voltage ride through, load reactive power support, and compensation of harmonic, unbalanced, and neutral currents. The efficacy of the proposed control scheme is evaluated through MATLAB/Simulink simulations and experimentally verified using a hardware-in-the-loop based system.
keywords: {Inverters;Power quality;Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Phase locked loops;Voltage control;Frequency control;Adaptive notch filter;distributed generation (DG);power quality;renewable energy sources (RESs);voltage source inverter (VSI)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7866889&isnumber=7982819


E. Afshari, G. R. Moradi, Y. Yang, B. Farhangi and S. Farhangi, "A review on current reference calculation of three-phase grid-connected PV converters under grid faults," 2017 IEEE Power and Energy Conference at Illinois (PECI), Champaign, IL, USA, 2017, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/PECI.2017.7935761.Abstract: Unbalanced grid voltage dips may lead to unbalanced non-sinusoidal current injections, dc-link voltage oscillations, and active and/or reactive power oscillations with twice the grid fundamental frequency in three-phase grid-connected Photovoltaic (PV) systems. Double grid frequency oscillations at the dc-link of the conventional two-stage PV inverters can further deteriorate the dc-link capacitor, which is one of the most life-limiting components in the system. Proper controls of these converters may efficiently address this problem. In those solutions, Current Reference Calculation (CRC) is one of the most important issues that should be coped with for a reliable operation of grid-connected converters under unbalanced grid faults. Accordingly, this paper reviews the existing CRC methods and presents a current reference generation method, which can have 16 unique modes. Issues are also investigated in this paper that the two-stage three-phase converter faces in each mode. The performance of the CRC method is verified and compared to the prior-art methods by simulations under unbalanced voltage dips. keywords: {Oscillators;Reactive power;Inverters;Voltage control;Capacitors;Power quality;Active filters;power oscillation;Current limitation;Dc-link voltage oscillation;Low-Voltage Ride-Through (LVRT);Photovoltaic (PV) systems;Two-stage PV inverter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7935761&isnumber=7935713

E. Afshari, B. Farhangi, Y. Yang and S. Farhangi, "A low-voltage ride-through control strategy for three-phase grid-connected PV systems," 2017 IEEE Power and Energy Conference at Illinois (PECI), Champaign, IL, USA, 2017, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/PECI.2017.7935767.Abstract: This paper proposes a novel control strategy for the two-stage three-phase Photovoltaic (PV) systems to improve the operation under unbalanced grid faults. In case that a three-phase power converter operates under unbalanced grid voltage faults, power related issues, including injected currents, active and reactive power can be negatively affected. In grid-connected systems, the unbalanced faults may lead to Double Grid Frequency (DGF) oscillations of active and/or reactive power or injection of non-sinusoidal three-phase currents. The DGF oscillations of the injected active power can cause similar variations in the dc-link voltage of conventional two-stage PV inverters. In such systems with an electrolytic capacitor in the dc-link, the oscillations of the dc-link voltage with DGF can deteriorate the capacitor lifetime, and thus the entire system. The proposed Low-Voltage Ride-Through (LVRT) control strategy benefits from a reference current generation method, which can eliminate the oscillations at the dc-link and in the active power during unbalanced voltage dips. In addition, a reliable current limiting method is introduced, which can efficiently prevent overcurrent failure under grid faults. Performance of the proposed LVRT strategy is verified on a 2-kW system by simulations under unbalanced voltage dips. keywords: {Reactive power;Oscillators;Power quality;Inverters;Voltage control;Limiting;Capacitors;Current limitation;Dc-link voltage oscillations;Low-Voltage Ride-Through (LVRT);PV systems;Two-stage converters;Unbalanced faults},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7935767&isnumber=7935713

A. F. Hoke, M. Shirazi, S. Chakraborty, E. Muljadi and D. Maksimovic, "Rapid Active Power Control of Photovoltaic Systems for Grid Frequency Support," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 1154-1163, Sept. 2017, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2017.2669299.
Abstract: As deployment of power electronic coupled generation such as photovoltaic (PV) systems increases, grid operators have shown increasing interest in calling on inverter-coupled generation to help mitigate frequency contingency events by rapidly surging active power into the grid. When responding to contingency events, the faster the active power is provided, the more effective it may be for arresting the frequency event. This paper proposes a predictive PV inverter control method for very fast and accurate control of active power. This rapid active power control (RAPC) method will increase the effectiveness of various higher-level controls designed to mitigate grid frequency contingency events, including fast power-frequency droop, inertia emulation, and fast frequency response, without the need for energy storage. The RAPC method, coupled with a maximum power point estimation method, is implemented in a prototype PV inverter connected to a PV array. The prototype inverter's response to various frequency events is experimentally confirmed to be fast (beginning within 2 line cycles and completing within 4.5 line cycles of a severe test event) and accurate (below 2% steady-state error).
keywords: {Frequency control;Inverters;Power control;Photovoltaic systems;Estimation;Voltage control;Active power control (APC);frequency control;inverters;photovoltaics (PVs);power systems},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7859347&isnumber=7997955


X. Guo, W. Liu and Z. Lu, "Flexible Power Regulation and Current-Limited Control of the Grid-Connected Inverter Under Unbalanced Grid Voltage Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 64, no. 9, pp. 7425-7432, Sept. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2017.2669018.
Abstract: The grid-connected inverters may experience excessive current stress in case of unbalanced grid voltage fault ride through (FRT), which significantly affects the reliability of the power supply system. In order to solve the problem, the inherent mechanisms of the excessive current phenomenon with the conventional FRT solutions are discussed. The quantitative analysis of three-phase current peak values is conducted and a novel current-limited control strategy is proposed to achieve the flexible active and reactive power regulation and successful FRT in a safe current operation area with the aim of improving the system reliability under grid faults. Finally, the simulation and experiments of traditional and proposed FRT solutions are carried out. The results verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Reliability;Voltage control;Power system reliability;Power control;Harmonic analysis;Distributed generation;fault ride through (FRT);grid fault;inverter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7855800&isnumber=8006337


C. S. Mishra, R. K. Jena and G. S. Mishra, "Study on fault of grid tied DG — A novel method for improvement of power quality under unbalanced voltage condition," 2017 4th International Conference on Advanced Computing and Communication Systems (ICACCS), Coimbatore, India, 2017, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/ICACCS.2017.8014630.Abstract: Various power quality issues can be mitigated by the introduction of power quality conditioner which shows a spectacular performance for grid tied DG system. This paper studied on various power quality issue, unbalance voltage and current distribution with several fault. Adding different adjusting commands which defines the system like existing reference current harmonic current relation with other system parameters, power wavering etc. are taken into account for achieving quality power and maximal gain. It the solo task of the controller to guide the entire system controlling current to generate the triggering signal for CCVSI. All the system parameter like Grid, DG, Controller, MPPT, fault etc. are extensively simulated under MATLAB/SIMULINK platform it is observe that all linear and non-linear load appears as balance load for entire grid. Specifically the faulty unit should isolated from the cascaded system by using sophisticated relays and CBs without affecting the entire system. It is also observed that this novel control strategy satisfactorily mitigate power quality issues without driving the system towards unstable phase. The converters used in this paper have multiple use like active power injector, reactive power compensator harmonic suppressor, power quality conditioner etc. all these task can be extracted either independently or can be performed together. After compensation the source current and source voltage THD value comes below 5% which is suited by IEEE 519 standard keywords: {Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Power system harmonics;Power quality;Fluctuations;Reactive power;Current Controlled Voltage Source Inverter (CCVSI);DC-DC converter;DG;PV;unbalanced fault;power fluctuation;FRC},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8014630&isnumber=8014556

S. Mortazavian, M. M. Shabestary and Y. A. -R. I. Mohamed, "Analysis and Dynamic Performance Improvement of Grid-Connected Voltage–Source Converters Under Unbalanced Network Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 32, no. 10, pp. 8134-8149, Oct. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2016.2633994.
Abstract: The energy sector is moving toward an extensive utilization of distributed and renewable energy resources. Such resources are usually interfaced to power grids via voltage-source converters (VSCs). Due to the increased penetration level of VSC-interfaced resources, the utilization of interfacing VSCs to support host grids under unbalanced conditions (e.g., due to grid voltage unbalance, unbalanced load conditions and unsymmetrical faults) becomes essential. However, detailed dynamic analysis and systematic design procedure to enhance the dynamic performance of grid-connected VSCs equipped with grid-support controllers are not reported in the literature. To fill in this gap, this paper presents a detailed small-signal model and analysis of the dynamics of a grid-connected VSC equipped with the recently developed balanced positive-sequence control and positive/negative-sequence control methods to support the grid under unbalanced conditions. The effects of the short-circuit ratio, angle of the ac system impedance, and phase-locked-loop parameters on the transient behavior of the VSC are thoroughly studied and characterized. Furthermore, to improve the dynamic performance of grid-connected VSCs, a simple yet effective current-control-based compensator is developed to mitigate possible instabilities associated with the low-voltage operation. Comparative simulation and experimental results validate the theoretical analysis and the effectiveness of the proposed compensation scheme.
keywords: {Power system dynamics;Analytical models;Power conversion;Power system stability;Stability analysis;Nonlinear dynamical systems;Grid-connected voltage–source converters (VSCs);grid-support;power converters;small-signal analysis;stability;state-space model;unbalanced grids},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7762731&isnumber=7924296


M. M. Shabestary and Y. A. -R. I. Mohamed, "Analytical Expressions for Multiobjective Optimization of Converter-Based DG Operation Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 32, no. 9, pp. 7284-7296, Sept. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2016.2628405.
Abstract: Recently, riding through grid faults and supporting the grid voltage by using grid-connected converters (GCCs) have become major requirements reflected in the grid codes. This paper presents a novel reference current generation scheme with the ability to support the grid voltage by injecting a proper set of positive/negative active/reactive currents by using four controlling parameters. Analytical expressions are proposed to obtain the optimal values of these parameters under any grid voltage condition. The optimal performances can be obtained by achieving the following objectives: first, compliance with the phase voltage limits, second, maximized active and reactive power delivery, third, minimized fault currents, and fourth reduced oscillations on the active and reactive powers. These optimal behaviors bring significant advantages to emerging GCCs, such as increasing the efficiency, lowering the dc-link ripples, improving ac system stability, and avoiding equipment tripping. Simulation and experimental results verify the analytical results and the proposed expressions.
keywords: {Oscillators;Reactive power;Voltage control;Mathematical model;Power system stability;Fault currents;Stability analysis;Grid faults;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT);power converters;reference-current generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7742894&isnumber=7909058


A. A. Montanari and A. M. Gole, "Enhanced Instantaneous Power Theory for Control of Grid Connected Voltage Sourced Converters Under Unbalanced Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 32, no. 8, pp. 6652-6660, Aug. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2016.2627049.
Abstract: Undesirable power oscillations take place in grid-connected voltage sourced converters (VSC) during unbalanced conditions. This problem becomes more difficult and pronounced during transients which include zero sequence content flowing through the ac/dc interface. This paper introduces a method especially designed to control the instantaneous power in voltage sourced converters operating under unbalanced transient scenarios with positive, negative, and zero sequence content. The control is based on an adaptive transformation that instantaneously adjusts itself to the dynamic voltage conditions. The method allows control over constant and oscillating terms of the instantaneous three-phase power. It is applied to grounded three-wire and four-wire schemes, especially accommodating zero sequence unlike previous approaches. The technique expands the application of the p-q theory, which is attached to the αβ0 transformation. The effectiveness of the proposed control approach and the proposed power conditioning scheme was demonstrated using electromagnetic transient simulation of a VSC connected to an ac system.
keywords: {Manganese;Transient analysis;Voltage control;Oscillators;Power conversion;AC–DC power conversion;power conditioning;power control;power converter;power system measurements},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7740053&isnumber=7886374


D. Pérez-Estévez, J. Doval-Gandoy, A. G. Yepes and Ó. López, "Positive- and Negative-Sequence Current Controller With Direct Discrete-Time Pole Placement for Grid-Tied Converters With LCL Filter," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 32, no. 9, pp. 7207-7221, Sept. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2016.2621754.
Abstract: Traditionally, the current control of grid-tied converters with LCL filter is based on proportional-resonant or proportional-integral controllers, which often need an additional active damping method to achieve stability. These solutions do not permit to place the closed-loop poles in convenient locations when dealing with such high-order plants. This constraint results in degraded reference-tracking and disturbance-rejection responses. On the other hand, the existing methods based on direct pole placement or other modern control strategies, do not control with zero steady-state error both positive and negative sequences of the grid current, but only the positive one. This limitation is undesirable under unbalanced grid conditions. This paper presents a current controller for grid-tied converters with LCL filters based on direct discrete-time pole placement. The proposed controller makes it possible to control both positive and negative sequences of the grid-side current with zero steady-state error. Contrarily to the classical resonant controllers, the closed-loop poles can be placed in convenient locations, yielding a fast response with negligible overshoot and low controller effort. Moreover, no additional damping methods of the resonance are necessary to achieve stable operation, regardless of the switching frequency and LCL filter used. Simulation and experimental results that validate the proposal are presented.
keywords: {Power conversion;Damping;Resonant frequency;Delays;Computational modeling;Mathematical model;Grid-connected converter;LCL filter;parameter sensitivity;state-space current control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7707406&isnumber=7909058


B. Dağ, A. R. Boynueğri, Y. Ateş, A. Karakaş, A. Nadar and M. Uzunoğlu, "Static Modeling of Microgrids for Load Flow and Fault Analysis," in IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 1990-2000, May 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPWRS.2016.2613547.
Abstract: Inverter interfaced distributed generators (DGs) in microgrids have different characteristics and models that are not available in the existing conventional power flow analysis tools. This paper presents a static modeling approach for inverter interfaced DGs that can be applied for time spread load flow analysis and fault analysis of microgrids, including droop-based voltage controlled DGs. The static models have been derived from the common control schemes applied to inverter interfaced DGs, including the constraints emerging from droop control and reflect steady-state behaviors of inverters accurately. In addition to simplification of analysis procedure, the static models can provide a base for the analysis of microgrids with conventional numeric analysis tools. The presented static modeling approach has been validated comparatively with the dynamic modeling results of a test microgrid.
keywords: {Microgrids;Inverters;Voltage control;Load modeling;Analytical models;Steady-state;Current control;Droop control;fault analysis;inverter;load flow;microgrid;static modeling},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7576668&isnumber=7902242


K. Sun, X. Wang, Y. W. Li, F. Nejabatkhah, Y. Mei and X. Lu, "Parallel Operation of Bidirectional Interfacing Converters in a Hybrid AC/DC Microgrid Under Unbalanced Grid Voltage Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 1872-1884, March 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2016.2555140.
Abstract: Today, interests on hybrid ac/dc microgrids, which contain the advantages of both ac and dc microgrids, are growing rapidly. In the hybrid ac/dc microgrid, the parallel-operated ac/dc bidirectional interfacing converters (IFCs) are increasingly used for large capacity renewable energy sources or as the interlinking converters between the ac and dc subsystems. When unbalanced grid faults occur, the active power transferred by the parallel-operated IFCs must be kept constant and oscillation-free to stabilize the dc bus voltage. However, under conventional control strategies in unbalanced grid conditions, the active power transfer capability of IFCs is affected due to the converters’ current rating limitations. Moreover, unbalanced voltage adverse effects on IFCs (such as output power oscillations, dc-link ripples, and output current enhancement) could be amplified by the number of parallel converters. Therefore, this paper investigates parallel operation of IFCs in hybrid ac/dc microgrids under unbalanced ac grid conditions and proposes a novel control strategy to enhance the active power transfer capability with zero active power oscillation. The proposed control strategy employs a new current sharing method which introduces adjustable current reference coefficients for parallel IFCs. In the proposed control strategy, only one IFC, named as redundant IFC, needs to be designed and installed with higher current rating to ensure the constant and oscillation-free output active power of parallel IFCs. Simulation and experimental results verify the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.
keywords: {Microgrids;Oscillators;Reactive power;Hybrid power systems;Voltage control;Bidirectional control;Power generation;Bidirectional interfacing converter;hybrid ac/dc microgrid;parallel converters;unbalanced grid voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7454751&isnumber=7779205


W. -M. Guo, L. -H. Mu and X. Zhang, "Fault Models of Inverter-Interfaced Distributed Generators Within a Low-Voltage Microgrid," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 453-461, Feb. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2016.2541344.
Abstract: The traditional overcurrent protection is not suitable for the microgrid. One of the main reasons is that the fault response of the inverter-interfaced distributed generator (IIDG) is very different from that of the rotational generator. This paper develops fault models of IIDGs within a low-voltage microgrid, including active/reactive power (PQ)-controlled IIDGs and voltage-controlled IIDGs. Considering that the control strategy of the PQ-controlled IIDG varies, this paper introduces adjustable parameters into the model to reflect its fault characteristics as comprehensive as possible. Voltage-controlled IIDG is of great significance on maintaining a stable microgrid. The model of voltage-controlled IIDG proposed in this paper keeps its voltage-source nature while accomplishing current limiting. The performance of the proposed IIDG fault models has been tested by Matlab simulations. The achievements of this paper are expected to have a positive impact on the development of microgrid fault analysis and protection.
keywords: {Microgrids;Voltage control;Reactive power;Generators;Power generation;Limiting;Density estimation robust algorithm;Current limitation;fault model;inverter-interfaced distributed generator;microgrid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7433452&isnumber=7828064


E. Serban, M. Ordonez and C. Pondiche, "Voltage and Frequency Grid Support Strategies Beyond Standards," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 298-309, Jan. 2017, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2016.2539343.
Abstract: In recent years, with a higher penetration of renewable distributed generators into the ac grid network, the risk of grid instabilities and vulnerabilities has increased. This paper proposes grid support strategies that can be used to alleviate the grid frequency-voltage variations, which are indicators of the imbalance between power generation and consumption within an ac network. The proposed strategies to support grid stability in the event of frequency-voltage variation go beyond recent standards and provide extended functionalities. The preconfigured set points of active power-frequency P(f) strategy features the control of the converter's power flow direction with an adjustable power gradient transition between grid-feeding and force charge as grid loading, in response to grid frequency deviation. The distributed power generators are represented by an energy storage converter, with the capacity to discharge and charge the electrical energy storage (EES) element, primarily for grid support purposes. The EES energy storage is configured for later usage when the grid requires active power support, under line frequency deviation, used under normal conditions, or during on-peak tariff high-demand daytime hours (energy shifting for TOU, ac load shave). In addition to grid support enhancement, the P(f) strategy is combined with reactive power-voltage Q(v ) control to attempt to correct frequency and voltage deviations in a collective impact of distributed generators operation for grid stabilization purposes. The P(f) - Q (v) strategy provides an automatic active/reactive power generate/receive preconfigured control, in response to frequency-voltage deviations, in order to support the grid and prevent network instabilities. The proposed control strategy for local frequency assist and voltage assist is applicable for single and three-phase grid converters interfaced with energy storage systems. Simulations and experimental results, obtained using a single-phase 6 kVA four-quadrant EES converter, are presented to validate the proposed P( f) and Q(v) grid support strategies.
keywords: {Frequency conversion;Frequency control;Voltage control;Generators;Energy storage;Reactive power;Standards;Active and reactive power grid support;electrical energy storage converter power system;frequency assist and voltage assist;grid loading;grid power balancing;grid support},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7429781&isnumber=7570348


D. Iioka and H. Saitoh, "Enhancement of fault ride through capability using constant current control of photovoltaic inverters," 2016 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies - Asia (ISGT-Asia), Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 2016, pp. 1083-1088, doi: 10.1109/ISGT-Asia.2016.7796536.Abstract: Distributed generation systems interconnected to a power system are required so as to recover their output power immediately after the voltage sag caused by a fault in the power system. The purpose of this work is to develop a control strategy of for a photovoltaic inverter so as to maintain the output current during the voltage sag and recover the output power rapidly after the voltage sag. The proposed over current control logic, which is a simpler approach, is described for controlling the photovoltaic inverter. It was found that the recovery characteristics of active power are improved. It takes only 34 ms after the voltage sag to recover up to 90 % of the reference power. keywords: {Inverters;Power quality;Photovoltaic systems;Current control;Voltage control;Power system stability;fault ride through;photovoltaic inverter;voltage sag},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7796536&isnumber=7796342

S. F. Eilaghi, A. Ahmadian and M. A. Golkar, "Optimal voltage unbalance compensation in a microgrid using PSO algorithm," 2016 IEEE 7th Power India International Conference (PIICON), Bikaner, India, 2016, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/POWERI.2016.8077299.Abstract: Distributed generations (DGs) make the microgrid active and more flexible. In addition of power demand supplying, the DGs can be used for improving power quality indices such as reducing voltage unbalance. However, for purposes of power quality improvement the microgrid controllers' coefficients should be adjusted optimally. Due to microgrid components accurate modeling, the controllers' adjustment is a complex problem that should be solved using an appropriate approach. The purpose of this paper is proposing particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm so as to find the optimal coefficients of a PI controller for enhancing voltage unbalance factor (VUF) in a microgrid. The objective function is considered minimization of integral of absolute error index which is solved under technical constraints. The results of simulation indicate the robustness and success of the proposed algorythm. keywords: {voltage unbalance compensation;microgrid;PSO algorithm;distributed generations},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8077299&isnumber=8077148

X. Li, Y. Tang, X. Wu and Y. Geng, "Simplified multi-objective co-control to improve performance of three-phase grid-connected inverters under unbalanced grid conditions," 2016 Asian Conference on Energy, Power and Transportation Electrification (ACEPT), Singapore, 2016, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ACEPT.2016.7811525.Abstract: Most of the existing unbalanced control strategies only focus on a single control objective, which makes it difficult for three-phase grid-connected inverters to operate at an optimal performance according to the demand. This paper has analyzed the amplitude and phase relations between the positive- and negative-sequence output current under different control objectives, and then proposes a simplified unbalance control strategy with multi-objective co-control. Each control objective can be realized by regulating the factor k directly, and with an appropriate k, the control performance of grid-connected inverters can get a great improvement under unbalanced grid conditions. The proposed strategy only introduce a negative-sequence current compensation without changing the traditional current control structure. Particularly, the effects of output filters have also been considered in the development of the control strategy, which will also produce the second-order instantaneous active power. Finally, the experimental results have verified the effectiveness of the proposed control strategies. keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Oscillators;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Mathematical model;Grid-connected inverter;instantaneous power model;multi-objective co-control;negative-sequence current;unbalanced grid conditions},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7811525&isnumber=7811503

J. Moriano, E. Bueno, R. Martín, F. J. Rodríguez and M. Rizo, "Multi-frequency stationary frame grid synchronization using multiple reduced order generalized integrators," IECON 2016 - 42nd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Florence, Italy, 2016, pp. 2349-2354, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2016.7793332.Abstract: This paper proposes a multi-frequency grid synchronization method in stationary frame αβ based in multiple reduced order generalized integrators (MROGI). The presented system is able to detect independently the positive and negative sequence components and also it is able to provide the selected sequence components (typically -5 and +7) in less computational time than other multi-frequency synchronization systems. Furthermore, simulated and experimental tests have been carried out for testing the performance of the proposed algorithm. Experimental tests validate the benefits of the presented algorithm in terms of burden time. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Synchronization;Transfer functions;Power conversion;Phase locked loops;Shape},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7793332&isnumber=7792929

W. Cao and Y. Xu, "A control strategy of grid-connected photovoltaic inverter under unbalanced voltage conditions," 2016 17th International Conference on Harmonics and Quality of Power (ICHQP), Belo Horizonte, Brazil, 2016, pp. 209-213, doi: 10.1109/ICHQP.2016.7783412.Abstract: The ride-through operation of photovoltaic inverter will produce apparent harmonic currents, cause active and reactive power fluctuations as well as DC voltage fluctuation under unbalance voltage faults. This paper studied on the power control of photovoltaic inverter under unbalanced faults, and proposed an improved control strategy which can restrain the fluctuation of active power, reactive power and output current harmonics. Adding several adjusting parameters based on the existing reference current algorithm, the relationships between harmonic current, power fluctuations and parameters are analyzed. The simulation models in PSCAD/EMTDC have been established with the proportional-resonant (PR) controller used to obtain a better dynamic performance, and the effectiveness of the proposed control strategies are demonstrated by satisfactory simulation results. keywords: {Fluctuations;Inverters;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Photovoltaic systems;Power system harmonics;photovoltaic inverter;unbalanced fault;harmonic currents;power fluctuation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7783412&isnumber=7783297

S. Gu, X. Du, Y. Shi, Y. Wu, P. Sun and H. -M. Tai, "Power control for grid-connected converter to comply with safety operation limits during grid faults," 2016 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2016, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2016.7855357.Abstract: This paper presents a new power control strategy of grid-connected converter under grid fault conditions. Positive-and negative-sequence reactive power are controlled separately in order to effectively support unbalanced grid voltage. Both maximum phase current limit and maximum active power oscillation limit are taken into consideration which makes the converter operate safely under grid faults. Spare capacity are fully used to generate active power. Reactive power is generated immediately and active power is generate gradually during calculation procedure which makes it possible for online application. Also, generating active power gradually lighten the burden of crowbar or other energy transfer devices and bring less impacts to grid. Experiment results prove that the proposed method is effective. keywords: {Oscillators;Reactive power;Power control;Mathematical model;Safety;Voltage control;Harmonic analysis;component;formatting;style;styling;insert},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7855357&isnumber=7854636

T. Yueh, T. -W. Tsai, Y. -M. Chen, Y. -D. Lee and Y. -R. Chang, "The reverse zero-sequence current compensation strategy for back-to-back active power conditioners," 2016 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2016, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2016.7855509.Abstract: In this paper, a novel reverse zero-sequence current (RZSC) compensation strategy for three-phase four-wire back-to-back active power conditioner (APC) is proposed. The objective of the APC is to achieve the active and reactive power compensation between two micro-grids. However, for the unbalanced voltage sag micro-grid system, the double-line frequency oscillation exists in the output active/reactive power of the APC. In order to eliminate these power oscillation, the zero-sequence current control must be utilized, but it will produce the line frequency ripple voltage on the split capacitors of the dc-bus. The capacitor ripple voltage will speed up the aging process and reduce its life-time. Therefore, the RZSC strategy is proposed to compensate the impact of the ripple voltage to the split capacitors. The circuit configuration and control block diagram of the APC will be introduced. The operation principle of the proposed RZSC strategy will be presented. Both computer simulations and hardware experimental results are presented to verify the performance of the proposed RZSC. keywords: {Capacitors;Inverters;Power quality;Oscillators;Reactive power;Rectifiers;Mathematical model;Micro-Grid;Active Power Conditioner;Unbalanced Voltage;Zero-Sequence Current},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7855509&isnumber=7854636

S. Zhou, J. Liu and Y. Zhang, "Dual sequence current control scheme implemented in DSRF with decoupling terms based on reference current feed-forward," 2016 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2016, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2016.7855053.Abstract: Injecting negative sequence current into the grid can improve the operating performance of grid-connected voltage source converters under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. In this paper, a dual sequence current control scheme was proposed to quickly track positive- and negative-sequence sinusoidal currents with zero steady state error, implemented in double synchronous reference frames and without requiring current positive- and negative-sequence component decomposition. The proposed method applied a proportional integrator controller in positive synchronous reference frame and only a integrator in negative synchronous reference frame. A reference cross transformation was introduced to avoid extracting current sequence components. Moreover, decoupling terms based on reference current feed-forward were used to realize decoupling control for both positive- and negative-sequence currents. Experimental tests were implemented on a laboratory prototype with 2kHz switching frequency to demonstrate the performance of the proposed dual sequence current control scheme. keywords: {current control;proportional-integrator controller;double synchronous reference frame},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7855053&isnumber=7854636

A. Khoshooei, J. S. Moghani, J. Milimonfared, A. Luna, I. Candela and P. Rodriguez, "Control of D-STATCOM during unbalanced grid faults based on DC voltage oscillations and peak current limitations," 2016 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2016, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2016.7854965.Abstract: The safe operation of grid connected power converters during abnormal condition is a key issue in order to guarantee its operation and to avoid undesired trips. In this paper different control methods for the operation of a D-STATCOM are evaluated, where the reference currents are determined in such a way that none of the phase currents goes over the limits, as well as the DC voltage fluctuations remain in safe operation limit. Therefore, the contribution of this paper lays on the combination of the DC voltage oscillations and the current limit control. As it is shown in the following, three different control strategies are evaluated. The amplitude of the oscillations which are superimposed on the DC voltage as well as peak amplitude of the phase currents are calculated for each, considering a generic imbalance in the network. The effectiveness of the presented control strategies are verified by simulating a D-STATCOM tied to an industrial distribution network. Moreover a scaled scenario has been reproduced experimentally which shows that the results cope well with the analytical equations and the simulation results. keywords: {Automatic voltage control;Oscillators;Fluctuations;Reactive power;Capacitors;Reactive power control;D-STATCOM;unbalaced operation;current control;DC voltage oscillations},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7854965&isnumber=7854636

P. Piya, M. Karimi-Ghartemani and S. A. Khajehoddin, "Fault ride-through capability for grid-supporting inverters," 2016 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2016, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2016.7855111.Abstract: Voltage control strategy has been observed as being more advantageous than current control strategy for microgrid applications where grid-connected and standalone operation of grid-supporting inverters are desired. Voltage control, however, limits the ability to directly control the inverter current. As a result, the fault ride-through or the low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) capability becomes more challenging to address. This paper develops a method for addressing this challenge by adding an auxiliary controller to the main voltage control system to enable the inverter to ride through the grid faults and inject a balanced current with controlled real and reactive components. Moreover, soft transition into the fault and out from the fault is achieved by the proposed controller. Derivations, partial stability analysis and detailed simulation results are presented. keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Stability analysis;Reactive power;Power system stability;Current control;Frequency estimation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7855111&isnumber=7854636

W. Z. Liu et al., "Enhanced power quality and minimized peak current control in an inverter based microgrid under unbalanced grid faults," 2016 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2016, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2016.7855083.Abstract: The microgrid inverter experiences the power oscillations and current harmonics in case of the unbalanced grid voltage faults. However, there is a trade-off between power oscillations and current harmonics should be considered in three phase three wire inverter systems during the conventional fault ride through control. In order to solve this problem, a novel control strategy is proposed to enhance the output current quality while mitigating the active and reactive output power oscillations. Moreover, a simple current-limited control strategy can be achieved without the necessity of the voltage/current positive/negative sequence extraction. Finally, the simulation tests of the conventional and proposed control solutions are carried out. The results verify the effectiveness of the proposed strategy. keywords: {Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Oscillators;Power system harmonics;Voltage control;Reactive power;Microgrids;microgrid inverter;unbalanced;fault ride through;current-limited},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7855083&isnumber=7854636

L. Chenchen, Z. Huizhi and J. Rong, "Current protection constraints based determination method for maximum access capacity of inverter interfaced DG," 2016 China International Conference on Electricity Distribution (CICED), Xi'an, China, 2016, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/CICED.2016.7576172.Abstract: According to the fault characteristic of inverter interfaced DG (IIDG) controlled by low voltage ride through, the connection voltage and short-circuit current variation influenced by IIDG's capacity are analyzed when fault occurs in distribution system. It turns out that the connection voltage and current of IIDG vary nonlinearly as IIDG's output power increases continuously. According to these characteristics, a current protection constraints based determination method for maximum access capacity of IIDG is proposed, under the premise of ensuring traditional protection effectiveness. The simulation verified the effectiveness of the method. keywords: {Circuit faults;Short-circuit currents;Power generation;Low voltage;Impedance;Voltage control;Generators;inverter interfaced DG;maximum access capacity;current protection constraints},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7576172&isnumber=7575895

W. Jiang, Y. Wang, J. Wang, L. Wang and H. Huang, "Maximizing Instantaneous Active Power Capability for PWM Rectifier Under Unbalanced Grid Voltage Dips Considering the Limitation of Phase Current," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, no. 10, pp. 5998-6009, Oct. 2016, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2016.2577544.
Abstract: For the case of unbalanced grid voltages, active power of pulse width modulation (PWM) rectifier is reduced due to the current limitation of power switches. Under unbalanced grid voltages, two existing control methods for the PWM rectifier are widely adopted, one for instantaneous active power control, and the other for balanced positive sequence current control. To maximize the PWM rectifier instantaneous active power capability and minimize active power oscillations during voltage dips, a control method combining balanced positive sequence and instantaneous active power control is proposed. The limitations of these two control methods are given, and the fluctuations on active and reactive power using the proposed control method are discussed in detail in this paper. The analysis in this paper is based on p.u. system, and some conclusions are drawn. Corroboration of the expected features of the proposed control method is carried out by means of experiments.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Pulse width modulation;Reactive power;Voltage control;Fluctuations;Power control;Voltage fluctuations;Balanced positive-sequence current control;instantaneous active power (IAP) control;limitation of phase current;pulse width modulation (PWM) rectifier;unbalanced grid voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7486088&isnumber=7563908


T. Paulraj, I. S. Sherin and M. A. Prakash, "Mitigation of power loss in transmission and distribution line using STATCOM," 2016 International Conference on Advanced Communication Control and Computing Technologies (ICACCCT), Ramanathapuram, India, 2016, pp. 432-435, doi: 10.1109/ICACCCT.2016.7831676.Abstract: Power loss is a major issue in power system. In this paper Hysteresis Band Current controller based STATCOM is proposed to reduce power loss in transmission system. By compensating the load reactive power, the power loss in the transmission line is mitigated. Controller for STATCOM is designed and analyzed for linear and non-linear type loads. Simulation is carried out through Matlab and the output results are shown. keywords: {Reactive power;Automatic voltage control;Propagation losses;Battery chargers;Power transmission lines;Heating;Power System;power loss;reactive power compensation;loss mitigation;STATCOM},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7831676&isnumber=7831584

X. Li et al., "Robust and autonomous dc bus voltage control and stability analysis for a dc microgrid," 2016 IEEE 8th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC-ECCE Asia), Hefei, China, 2016, pp. 3708-3714, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC.2016.7512889.Abstract: In this paper, a novel approach for robust and autonomous dc bus voltage control in a dc microgrid has been proposed. A nonlinear disturbance observer (NDO) only with local information is designed firstly to track power disturbances caused by load changing or the volatility of the renewable sources in the dc microgrid. With the observer, voltage droop method has been adopted in achieving power sharing and autonomous operation of a dc microgrid. Furthermore, an improved current feedforward is developed to suppress wide fluctuations of the dc bus voltage during transients. In addition, a notch filter has been used to effectively eliminate the second harmonic ripple components in the inductor currents of the droop control units to improve the power quality. The effectiveness of the proposed control scheme is verified on a laboratory prototype including two bidirectional dc-dc converters supplied by two programmable dc power supply systems, a dc load with a resistor connected to the dc bus via a buck type dc-dc converter and a three-phase unbalanced ac load. keywords: {Voltage control;Microgrids;Stability analysis;Observers;Power system stability;Robustness;Notch filters;DC microgrid;robust and autonomous control;plug-play;nonlinear disturbance observer},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7512889&isnumber=7512248

Yongsheng Wang, Weidong Jiang, Lei Wang and Hui Huang, "Hybrid instantaneous active power control for PWM rectifier under grid voltage dips considering the limitation of phase current," 2016 IEEE 8th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC-ECCE Asia), Hefei, 2016, pp. 408-415, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC.2016.7512321.Abstract: When the grid voltage dips, the power handled by the PWM rectifier must be reduced. This paper analyses the mathematical model of a grid-connected inverter under unbalanced grid voltages based on the instantaneous power theory. The two control objectives of the PWM rectifier are introduced, one for symmetrical three-phase grid currents and the other for suppressing the fluctuation on the active power. Considering the limitation of phase current, an improved control strategy which is a hybrid of these two control objectives, is proposed to increase the average active power and decrease the fluctuation on the active power. The analysis in this paper is carried out in the P.u. system, so some simplified conclusions can be drawn. Corroboration of the expected features of the proposed control strategy is carried out by means of experiments. keywords: {Rectifiers;Pulse width modulation;Fluctuations;Reactive power;Voltage control;Trajectory;Power electronics;PWM rectifier;unbalanced grid;control objectives;positive and negative sequence separation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7512321&isnumber=7512248

Nie Xiong, Xie Yunxiang, Chen Bing, Zhang Xiaoyu, Hei Chenyang and Zeng Zhiwu, "A low-voltage ride-through strategy for three-phase distributed generation inverters during voltage sags," 2016 IEEE 8th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC-ECCE Asia), Hefei, 2016, pp. 933-938, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC.2016.7512412.Abstract: Asymmetric voltage sag occurs in the actual operation of the power grid, and the negative sequence component of the voltage will result in the output power fluctuation and the three-phase current distortion. At the same time, the decrease of voltage amplitude will make the peak value of the output current increased, and then bring the safety hazard to the PV system. A control strategy based on the low voltage ride through capability of photovoltaic inverter is presented. The control strategy is used when the grid voltage drops, which can limit the increase of active current. At the same time, the reactive current is injected to support the grid. The simulation and experimental results verify the feasibility of the proposed control method. keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Reactive power;Photovoltaic systems;Inverters;Power quality;Voltage control;distributed generation;low-voltage ride-through;voltage sag;active power control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7512412&isnumber=7512248

M. M. Shabestary and Y. A. -R. I. Mohamed, "An Analytical Method to Obtain Maximum Allowable Grid Support by Using Grid-Connected Converters," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 1558-1571, Oct. 2016, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2016.2569022.
Abstract: Recently, supporting the grid voltage and proper operation of the grid-connected converters (GCCs) under a wide range of grid voltage conditions have become major requirements. An analytical study is very useful for evaluating the supporting capability of the available control strategies in GCCs. This paper analytically studies, then modifies the supporting capability of three existing strategies. The contribution of this paper is two-fold: first, analytical expressions of instantaneous active/reactive powers oscillation and maximum phase currents are formulated and used to conduct several comparisons among different strategies. Second, based on the obtained formulas for the maximum phase currents, maximum allowable support (MAS) control schemes are proposed under unbalanced voltage conditions. The MAS control schemes have two important objectives: obtaining maximum active or reactive power delivery and simultaneously respecting the maximum phase currents under the unbalanced condition. The proposed equations can further estimate the maximum depth of the faulted voltage where each strategy is still able to satisfy the voltage support requirements imposed by the grid codes. The proposed expressions can also help all techniques to provide their maximum voltage or frequency support under the pre-set maximum phase current limitations. Different selected simulation and experimental tests are carried out for comparing the strategies, and validating the effectiveness of the proposed MAS equations.
keywords: {Iterative closest point algorithm;Mathematical model;Oscillators;Reactive power;Voltage control;Harmonic analysis;Indexes;Grid faults;low voltage ride through (LVRT);maximum allowable grid support;maximum fault current;positive and negative sequence currents;power converters;reference current generation;unbalanced faults},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7469798&isnumber=7570347


G. C. Konstantopoulos, Q. -C. Zhong and W. -L. Ming, "PLL-Less Nonlinear Current-Limiting Controller for Single-Phase Grid-Tied Inverters: Design, Stability Analysis, and Operation Under Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, no. 9, pp. 5582-5591, Sept. 2016, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2016.2564340.
Abstract: A nonlinear controller for single-phase grid-tied inverters, that can operate under both a normal and a faulty grid with guaranteed closed-loop stability, is proposed. The proposed controller acts independently from the system parameters, does not require a phase-locked loop, and can achieve the desired real power regulation and unity power factor operation. Based on nonlinear input-to-state stability theory, it is analytically proven that the inverter current always remains below a given value, even during transients, independently from grid variations or faults (short circuit or voltage sag). The desired performance and stability of the closed-loop system are rigorously proven since the controller has a structure that does not require any switches, additional limiters, or monitoring devices for its implementation. Therefore, nonlinear stability of a grid-tied inverter with a given current-limiting property is proven for both normal and faulty grid conditions. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is experimentally verified under different operating conditions of the grid.
keywords: {Inverters;Stability analysis;Power system stability;Circuit faults;Circuit stability;Reactive power;Phase locked loops;Current-limiting property;grid fault;nonlinear control;single-phase inverter;stability},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7465781&isnumber=7536632


H. N. Villegas Pico and D. C. Aliprantis, "Voltage Ride-Through Capability Verification of DFIG-Based Wind Turbines Using Reachability Analysis," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 1387-1398, Dec. 2016, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2016.2563320.
Abstract: Grid code specifications for voltage ride-through (VRT) of power generating units are based on time-domain envelopes of permissible terminal voltage magnitudes. Since an infinite number of voltage trajectories can be inscribed within a given enclosure, verifying that a given apparatus will withstand any such disturbance can be a daunting task. This paper tackles the VRT verification problem for doubly fed induction generator (DFIG)-based wind turbines. To this end, reachability analysis is employed to calculate sets that enclose all possible trajectories of the dynamic states of a DFIG-based system when perturbed by unknown-but-bounded grid voltage disturbances.
keywords: {Reachability analysis;Wind turbines;Trajectory;Generators;Analytical models;Rotors;Algorithm design and analysis;Converters;induction machines;power system faults;reachability analysis;wind power generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7464925&isnumber=7753007


L. Hadjidemetriou, A. Charalambous, P. Demetriou and E. Kyriakides, "Dynamic modeling of IEEE test systems including renewable energy sources," 2016 18th Mediterranean Electrotechnical Conference (MELECON), Lemesos, Cyprus, 2016, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/MELCON.2016.7495324.Abstract: A Renewable Energy Source (RES), enhanced with Fault Ride Through (FRT) capability, can provide proper voltage and frequency support to the power grid under several disturbances. This paper investigates how a realistic dynamic power system with high penetration of RES reacts under different operating conditions. More specifically, the power system operation when RES operates according to the current grid regulations of the Cyprus TSO is demonstrated. For the purposes of this investigation, a RES is interconnected with the IEEE 9-bus test system, reinforced with an appropriate directional over-current protection scheme, and dynamic electromagnetic transient simulation results are provided. keywords: {Power system dynamics;Power system stability;Relays;Power harmonic filters;Analytical models;Circuit faults;dynamic power system;fault ride through;power system protection and operation;renewable energy sources},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7495324&isnumber=7495297

Z. Wang, B. Wu, D. Xu, M. Cheng and L. Xu, "DC-Link Current Ripple Mitigation for Current-Source Grid-Connected Converters Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, no. 8, pp. 4967-4977, Aug. 2016, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2016.2554080.
Abstract: The purpose of this paper is to develop a model and propose control strategies to mitigate dc-link current ripple for current-source grid-connected converter (CSGCC) under unbalanced grid conditions. Based on the model of instant active power under unbalanced grid conditions, this paper proposes the optimized negative-sequence current references for eliminating the double-frequency oscillations on active power at ac side of CSGCC. Both the single CSGCC and the paralleled CSGCCs are considered in this paper. In order to track the asymmetric current references more accurately while maintaining LC resonance damping, the hybrid current controller is proposed by combining the closed-loop fundamental current controller under double synchronous frames and the closed-loop high-bandwidth harmonic current controller under stationary frame. The design of the hybrid current controller is analyzed. Finally, the experimental results are shown to verify that the control strategies can mitigate the dc-link current ripple effectively, and also provide good LC resonance damping performance for grid currents.
keywords: {Power harmonic filters;Voltage control;Inductance;Oscillators;Damping;Power control;Harmonic analysis;Current-source current control;dc-link current ripple;grid-connected converter;LC resonance unbalanced grid condition},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7452663&isnumber=7508400


M. Eydi, J. Farhang, R. Emamalipour and B. Asaei, "Low voltage ride-through of a two-stage photovoltaic inverter under different types of grid faults," 2016 Iranian Conference on Renewable Energy & Distributed Generation (ICREDG), Mashhad, Iran, 2016, pp. 78-83, doi: 10.1109/ICREDG.2016.7875899.Abstract: Today, with an increase in the share of power produced by the distributed generation especially the wind and solar sources, the standards for connecting these sources to the grid have been updated. According to these standards, the distributed generation sources must stay connected to the grid during fault conditions and must help the grid to come back to normal conditions. In this paper, a method is proposed for controlling the 3-phase 2-stage solar converter during fault conditions. In this method, it has been tried to take into consideration and meet 4 main challenges in controlling the distributed generation sources when a fault occurs. These challenges include: 1) The quality of the injected power into the grid. 2) Control of the current of all phases within their allowed ranges for both balanced and unbalanced faults. 3) Meeting the grid requirements during fault. 4) Using the inverter's maximum capacity to support the grid at the times of fault. The functionality of the proposed method is investigated in MATLAB software and Simulink environment. keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Standards;Frequency control;Renewable energy sources;Photovoltaic systems;Distributed power generation;Active and reactive power control;Grid connected inverter;Power oscillation;Unbalanced grid fault},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7875899&isnumber=7875893

Z. Li, R. Zhao, Z. Xin, J. M. Guerrero, M. Savaghebi and P. Li, "Inrush Transient Current analysis and suppression of photovoltaic grid-connected inverters during voltage sag," 2016 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Long Beach, CA, USA, 2016, pp. 3697-3703, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2016.7468402.Abstract: The Inrush Transient Current (ITC) in the output of the photovoltaic grid-connected inverters is usually generated when grid voltage sag occurs, which can trigger the protection of the grid-connected inverters, and even destroy the semiconductor switches. Then, the grid-connected inverters will thus fail to ride through the voltage sag and even further cause more serious grid faults. This paper analyzes the generation principle of ITC and explores its influence factors, upon which, the suppression approaches are presented. Simulation and experimental results validate the theoretical analysis and the effectiveness of the proposed method. keywords: {Computer aided software engineering;Voltage fluctuations;Voltage control;Inverters;Digital control;Delays;Inductors;the inrush transient current (ITC);photovoltaic grid-connected inverters;voltage sag;influence factors;suppression approaches},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7468402&isnumber=7467833

Y. Lu, G. Xiao, X. Wang and F. Blaabjerg, "Three-phase multiple harmonic sequence detection based on Generalized Delayed Signal Superposition," 2016 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Long Beach, CA, USA, 2016, pp. 2215-2222, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2016.7468174.Abstract: Grid synchronization has always been an important challenge for three-phase grid-connected converters under unbalanced and distorted grid conditions. Moreover, how to quickly and accurately extract multiple harmonic sequence information is essential for control systems. In this paper, a three-phase multiple harmonic sequence detection method is proposed for estimating both the fundamental and harmonic sequence components under adverse grid conditions. This detection method is denoted as MGDSS-PLL since it contains Multiple Generalized Delayed Signal Superposition operators and a Phase-Locked Loop. The proposed MGDSS-PLL can be flexibly tuned to extracting any harmonic components according to specific applications and it also exhibits great robustness to different grid disturbances. Simulations and experimental results are presented for verifying the performance of the MGDSS-PLL. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Synchronization;Phase locked loops;Robustness;Delays;Frequency response;Three-phase;Grid synchronization;Harmonic detection;Phase-locked loop;Delayed signal superposition},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7468174&isnumber=7467833

M. F. M. Arani and Y. A. -R. I. Mohamed, "Assessment and Enhancement of a Full-Scale PMSG-Based Wind Power Generator Performance Under Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 728-739, June 2016, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2016.2526618.
Abstract: A full-scale permanent-magnet synchronous generator (PMSG)-based wind turbine with dc-link voltage control via the machine-side converter has the potential to provide inherent low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) performance without additional hardware components. However, several important performance aspects related to this topology are not addressed in this literature. This paper investigates the impacts of the LVRT control on the stability and risk of resonance, successful operation, and fatigue in a full-scale PMSG-based wind power generation system. An analytical model, considering the double-mass nature of the turbine/generator and typical LVRT requirements, is developed, validated, and used to characterize the dynamic performance of the wind generation system under LVRT control and practical generator characteristics. To enhance the operation and reduce the fatigue under LVRT control, two solutions, based on active damping control and dc-link voltage bandwidth retuning, are proposed, analyzed, and compared. The detailed nonlinear time-domain simulation results validate the accuracy of the developed model and analytical results.
keywords: {Generators;Wind power generation;Fatigue;Power system dynamics;Voltage control;Power system stability;Damping;Aging;fatigue;low-voltage ride-through;modeling;permanent-magnet synchronous generator (PMSG);stability;wind power generation;Aging;fatigue;low-voltage ride-through;modeling;permanent-magnet synchronous generator (PMSG);stability;wind power generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7422063&isnumber=7471554


G. Rezazadeh, F. Tahami and H. Valipour, "Three-phase PFC rectifier with high efficiency and low cost for small PM synchronous wind generators," 2016 7th Power Electronics and Drive Systems Technologies Conference (PEDSTC), Tehran, Iran, 2016, pp. 302-307, doi: 10.1109/PEDSTC.2016.7556878.Abstract: Small Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generators (PMSG's) are widely used in low power wind turbines. In order to inject the electrical power, generated by PMSG, to the grid, a back-to-back AC/AC power electronic converter is required. In this paper, a novel low cost efficient AC/DC converter is proposed for rectifier stage to obtain the maximum power per ampere of PMSG by using Power Factor Correction method. The new structure is based on DCM SEPIC converter. Reducing the number of semi-conductor switches has decreased converter cost. Additionally, other advantages of this Converter are employing easy control method to obtain the maximum power per ampere and using Synchronous inductance of PMSG as a converter element. Unlike Conventional DCM Boost rectifier, the proposed converter has a continuous input current that leads to lower conduction power loss in PMSG. Principles of operation are presented as well as the closed-loop simulation results for a 500W/100V prototype. keywords: {Rectifiers;Periodic structures;Switches;Permanent magnets;Synchronous generators;Rotors;Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generator;Power Factor Correction Rectifier;SEPIC Converter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7556878&isnumber=7556827

J. A. Rohten et al., "Model Predictive Control for Power Converters in a Distorted Three-Phase Power Supply," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, no. 9, pp. 5838-5848, Sept. 2016, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2016.2527732.
Abstract: The interest on weak and micro-grid systems has grown up substantially last time, specially tied up to distributed power generation systems (DPGSs), isolated systems as aircraft, or islanding power systems. These kinds of grids are usually under significant variation in their quantities, specifically in their voltage amplitude and/or frequency. On this line, many studies about synchronization methods have been developed, which may work under variations on the frequency value, unbalanced voltage, and even with harmonic distortion. However, power converters connected to this class of systems are poorly documented-specifically controlled rectifiers. In fact, most of the controlled grid connected converters (GCCs) are defined to work in a fixed frequency and balanced system. This paper deals with a GCC connected to a variable-frequency and unbalanced voltage supply system control through a predictive algorithm with a fixed resolution sampling strategy. Furthermore, the current references are imposed in order to help the weak-grid source subjected to unbalancing, taking more power from the phase with highest voltage amplitude and relaxing the other phases. This issue makes to calculate every phase current reference independently and accordingly the voltage amplitudes keep the dc-link voltage in a desired value. The results show the feasibility of the proposed algorithm, where the performance is highlighted by simulated and experimental waveforms.
keywords: {Voltage control;Rectifiers;Reactive power;Inverters;Predictive control;Frequency control;Prediction algorithms;Back-to-back power converter;distributed power generation systems (DPGSs);predictive control;variable-frequency systems},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7403923&isnumber=7536632


H. -C. Chen, C. -T. Lee, P. -T. Cheng, R. Teodorescu and F. Blaabjerg, "A Low-Voltage Ride-Through Technique for Grid-Connected Converters With Reduced Power Transistors Stress," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 31, no. 12, pp. 8562-8571, Dec. 2016, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2016.2522511.
Abstract: With more and more distributed energy resources being installed in the utility grid, grid operators start imposing the low-voltage ride-through requirement on such systems to remain grid-connected and inject reactive and/or active current to support grid voltage during fault conditions. This paper proposes a positive and negative sequence current injection method to meet such requirement. In the meantime, the proposed method can reduce the second harmonic ripples in the dc link of the power converter without violating the peak current constraint of the power transistors. The long-term reliability of the converter system can thus be improved.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Voltage fluctuations;Power transistors;Power system stability;Reliability;Capacitors;Cutoff frequency;Active power ripple;distributed energy resources (DERs);grid-connected converter;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7399749&isnumber=7505464


R. Kabiri, D. G. Holmes and B. P. McGrath, "Control of Active and Reactive Power Ripple to Mitigate Unbalanced Grid Voltages," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 52, no. 2, pp. 1660-1668, March-April 2016, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2015.2508425.
Abstract: Managing power delivery from distributed generation systems is challenging when the grid voltages are unbalanced, since the negative sequence voltage causes power oscillations at twice the fundamental grid frequency. Current regulation using sequence components can be used to manage these real and reactive power oscillations, and thus help mitigate the unbalanced network voltages. This paper presents a consolidated control scheme using double sequence frame current regulators that can readily adjust between eliminating real or reactive power oscillations created by unbalanced grid voltages, or alternatively can simply balance the three-phase currents. The mitigation influence of these alternative control strategies on unbalanced grid voltages is then experimentally examined for a distribution feeder with a resistive and/or reactive series impedance.
keywords: {Reactive power;Voltage control;Oscillators;Regulators;Voltage measurement;Current control;Current measurement;distributed generation;power oscillation control;unbalanced voltages;double synchronous frame;Distributed generation (DG);double synchronous frame;power oscillation control;unbalanced voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7355357&isnumber=7435355


M. Zhu, L. Hang, G. Li and X. Jiang, "Protected Control Method for Power Conversion Interface Under Unbalanced Operating Conditions in AC/DC Hybrid Distributed Grid," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 31, no. 1, pp. 57-68, March 2016, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2015.2480757.
Abstract: The voltage source converters (VSC) are the key power interfaces between the individual ac grids and dc grids in the hybrid power system. When the ac grid is unbalanced, the grid currents are distorted and the harmonic is induced. Meanwhile, the oscillations in the active and reactive power are also increased, which may damage these interfaces. In order to ensure the safety of the converters and the grid facility, a flexible control strategy is proposed for the ac/dc hybrid grid in this paper. At first, the current harmonic for the VSC is theoretically analyzed under unbalanced conditions. Furthermore, the methods to separate the positive- and negative-sequence components of the ac grid voltages are summed up and analyzed. Based on the theoretical analysis, different protected control methods are compared. A new control method, which can flexibly control oscillations of the active and reactive power by introducing a parameter k, has been proposed. The estimation of maximum current in each phase is discussed; meanwhile, the relationship between the voltage ripple on dc link and the parameter k is given. Finally, the validity and advantages of the proposed method are verified by the simulating and experimental results.
keywords: {Oscillators;Power conversion;Voltage control;Harmonic analysis;Reactive power;Power system harmonics;AC/DC hybrid grid;digital control;positive- and negative-sequence component;protected control method;unbalanced ac grid voltages;AC/DC hybrid grid;digital control;positive- and negative-sequence component;protected control method;unbalanced ac grid voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7317508&isnumber=7410138


F. A. S. Neves, M. Carrasco, F. Mancilla-David, G. M. S. Azevedo and V. S. Santos, "Unbalanced Grid Fault Ride-Through Control for Single-Stage Photovoltaic Inverters," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 3338-3347, April 2016, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2015.2453275.
Abstract: Integration of distributed generation (DG) such as photovoltaics (PV) represents a challenge for the traditional operation of distribution power systems. As the installed power of DGs grows, grid codes are being modified to involve DGs in the provision of ancillary services. This includes the ability to ride-through large disturbances. In this paper, the behavior of a single-stage PV system under unbalanced voltage conditions is studied, and a fault ride-through control scheme is proposed which is able to support the grid through the injection of reactive power. Furthermore, adjustable power quality is enabled as a tradeoff between power ripple and current harmonics. The control scheme makes use of a current controller based on the space vector Fourier transform concept. No rotational transformation is required, and zero steady-state error is ensured when tracking distorted current references. The controller was tested in detailed PSCAD/EMTDC computer simulations, and implemented in a real grid-connected PV system to demonstrate its performance under unbalanced voltage conditions.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Voltage control;Reactive power;Mathematical model;Inverters;Arrays;Photovoltaic Power Systems;Power Electronics;Inverters;Power Distribution Faults;Power Conversion Harmonies;Inverters;photovoltaic power systems;power conversion harmonics;power distribution faults;power electronics},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7152925&isnumber=7339495


M. Pahlevani, S. Eren, J. M. Guerrero and P. Jain, "A Hybrid Estimator for Active/Reactive Power Control of Single-Phase Distributed Generation Systems With Energy Storage," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 2919-2936, April 2016, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2015.2453350.
Abstract: This paper presents a new active/reactive power closed-loop control system for a hybrid renewable energy generation system used for single-phase residential/commercial applications. The proposed active/reactive control method includes a hybrid estimator, which is able to quickly and accurately estimate the active/reactive power values. The proposed control system enables the hybrid renewable energy generation system to be able to perform real-time grid interconnection services such as active voltage regulation, active power control, and fault ride-through. Simulation and experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed closed-loop control system.
keywords: {Reactive power;Energy storage;Control systems;Hybrid power systems;Voltage control;Renewable energy sources;Reactive power control;AC/DC Converter;DC/DC Converter;Renewable Energy;Bi-Directional Converter;Grid-Connected Converter;Adaptive Estimator;State Observer;Double-Frequency Ripple;Ac/dc converter;adaptive estimator;bidirectional converter;dc/dc converter;double-frequency ripple;grid-connected converter;renewable energy;state observer},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7152927&isnumber=7339495


H. Nian, P. Cheng and Z. Q. Zhu, "Coordinated Direct Power Control of DFIG System Without Phase-Locked Loop Under Unbalanced Grid Voltage Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 2905-2918, April 2016, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2015.2453127.
Abstract: This paper proposes a coordinated direct power control (DPC) scheme for the rotor-side converter (RSC) and the grid-side converter (GSC) of the doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. In order to eliminate the coupling interactions between the phase-locked loop (PLL) and the local unbalanced network, a virtual phase angle is used to replace the actual one acquired by the PLL. Thus, the PLL is removed out of RSC and GSC in the proposed DPC scheme. During network unbalance, the RSC is controlled to reduce torque ripples, while three selectable control targets are identified for the GSC, i.e., constant total active power, constant total reactive power, and balanced currents. A single-side resonant controller with the frequency discrimination between the positive- and negative-sequence signals of the same frequency is employed in the coordinated DPC scheme to avoid the complex calculations of the power compensating components. Meanwhile, the sequential separations of the voltages and currents are also eliminated. Then, the control performance, including the limits of the dc-link voltage, the dc-capacitor power oscillations, the impacts of the frequency deviations, and the grid synchronization of the proposed DPC strategy, is discussed. Finally, the experimental results of DFIG system verify the effectiveness of the proposed DPC strategy under unbalanced grid voltage conditions.
keywords: {Reactive power;Stators;Resonant frequency;Phase locked loops;Torque;Voltage control;coordinated direct power control;doubly fed induction generator;phase locked loop;single-side resonant controller;unbalanced grid voltage;Coordinated direct power control;doubly fed induction generator (DFIG);phase-locked loop (PLL);single-side resonant controller;unbalanced grid voltage},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7151833&isnumber=7339495


J. L. Sosa, M. Castilla, J. Miret, J. Matas and Y. A. Al-Turki, "Control Strategy to Maximize the Power Capability of PV Three-Phase Inverters During Voltage Sags," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 3314-3323, April 2016, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2015.2451674.
Abstract: Under voltage sags, grid-tied photovoltaic inverters should remain connected to the grid according to low-voltage ride-through requirements. During such perturbations, it is interesting to exploit completely the distributed power provisions to contribute to the stability and reliability of the grid. In this sense, this paper proposes a low-voltage ride-through control strategy that maximizes the inverter power capability by injecting the maximum-rated current during the sag. To achieve this objective, two possible active power situations have been considered, i.e., high- and low-power production scenarios. In the first case, if the source is unable to deliver the whole generated power to the grid, the controller applies active power curtailment to guarantee that the maximum rated current is not surpassed. In the second case, the maximum allowed current is not reached, thus, the control strategy determined the amount of reactive power that can be injected up to reach it. The control objective can be fulfilled by means of a flexible current injection strategy that combines a proper balance between positive- and negative-current sequences, which limits the inverter output current to the maximum rated value and avoid active power oscillations. Selected experimental and simulation results are reported in order to validate the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.
keywords: {Reactive power;Inverters;Power quality;Oscillators;Voltage fluctuations;Voltage control;Production;Distributed PV generation;voltage sag;low-voltage ride-through;Distributed PV generation;low-voltage ride-through;maximum-rated current;reactive power injection;voltage sag},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7145468&isnumber=7339495


X. Zhou, F. Tang, P. C. Loh, X. Jin and W. Cao, "Four-Leg Converters With Improved Common Current Sharing and Selective Voltage-Quality Enhancement for Islanded Microgrids," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 522-531, April 2016, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2015.2450111.
Abstract: Four-leg dc-ac power converters are widely used for the power grids to manage grid voltage unbalance caused by the interconnection of single-phase or three-phase unbalanced loads. These converters can further be connected in parallel to increase the overall power rating. The control of these converters poses a particular challenge if they are placed far apart with no links between them (e.g., in islanded microgrids). This challenge is studied in this paper with each four-leg converter designed to have improved common current sharing and selective voltage-quality enhancement. The common current sharing, including zero sequence component, is necessary since loads are spread over the microgrid and they are hence the common responsibility of all converters. The voltage-quality enhancement consideration should however be more selective since different loads have different sensitivity levels towards voltage disturbances. Converters connected to the more sensitive load buses should therefore be selectively triggered for compensation when voltage unbalances at their protected buses exceed the predefined thresholds. The proposed scheme is therefore different from conventional centralized schemes protecting only a common bus. Simulation and experimental results obtained have verified the effectiveness of the proposed scheme when applied to a four-wire islanded microgrid.
keywords: {Microgrids;Voltage control;Impedance;Reactive power;Pulse width modulation;Threshold voltage;Filtering theory;Four-leg converter;microgrid;unbalance;virtual impedance;voltage quality},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7134803&isnumber=7438949


P. -I. Hwang, G. Jang, S. -I. Moon and S. -J. Ahn, "Three-Phase Steady-State Models for a Distributed Generator Interfaced via a Current-Controlled Voltage-Source Converter," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 1694-1702, May 2016, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2015.2428273.
Abstract: This paper proposes three-phase steady-state models for a distributed generator (DG) interfaced to a main system via a three-wire current-controlled voltage-source converter. In order to represent the DG in a realistic manner, the three major factors that determine the steady-state phase outputs under unbalanced operating conditions are considered: 1) the power control strategy; 2) output filter; and 3) voltage and current sensor positions. Based on these factors, the DGs are classified into various types. According to the position of the voltage sensor, two equivalent circuit models including an equivalent three-phase current source (ETCS) are proposed. For each type of DG, the output current of the ETCS is formulated as a function of the voltage of the ETCS-connected node, the filter impedances, and the active and reactive power references. To verify the accuracy of the proposed models, the results of the power flow incorporating them are compared with those obtained from the PSCAD simulation using detailed dynamic models of the DG.
keywords: {Steady-state;Voltage control;Integrated circuit modeling;Reactive power;Voltage measurement;Capacitors;Biological system modeling;Converter model;distributed generator (DG);distribution system;power flow;steady-state model;voltage-source converter;Converter model;distributed generator (DG);distribution system;power flow;steady-state model;voltage-source converter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7120992&isnumber=7456360


F. Blaabjerg, Y. Yang, K. Ma and X. Wang, "Power electronics - the key technology for renewable energy system integration," 2015 International Conference on Renewable Energy Research and Applications (ICRERA), Palermo, Italy, 2015, pp. 1618-1626, doi: 10.1109/ICRERA.2015.7418680.Abstract: The energy paradigms in many countries (e.g. Germany and Denmark) have experienced a significant change from fossil-based resources to clean renewables (e.g. wind turbines and photovoltaics) in the past few decades. The scenario of highly penetrated renewables is going to be further enhanced - Denmark expects to be 100 % fossil-free by 2050. Consequently, it is required that the production, distribution and use of the energy should be as technologically efficient as possible and incentives to save energy at the end-user should also be strengthened. In order to realize the transition smoothly and effectively, energy conversion systems, currently based on power electronics technology, will again play an essential role in this energy paradigm shift. Using highly efficient power electronics in power generation, power transmission/distribution and end-user application, together with advanced control solutions makes the way for renewable energies. In light of this, some of the most emerging renewable energies, e.g. wind energy and photovoltaic, which by means of power electronics are changing character as a major part in the electricity generation, are explored in this presentation. Issues like technology development, implementation, power converter technologies, control of the systems, and synchronization are addressed. Special focuses are paid on the future trends in power electronics for those systems like how to lower the cost of energy and to develop emerging power devices and better reliability tool. keywords: {Power electronics;Wind turbines;Reliability;Power system stability;Power system reliability;Generators;Renewable energy sources},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7418680&isnumber=7418140

M. Hui, X. Yunxiang, L. Wenjing and C. Bing, "Research on direct power control based on sliding mode control for vienna-type rectifier," IECON 2015 - 41st Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Yokohama, Japan, 2015, pp. 000025-000030, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2015.7392071.Abstract: This paper presents an improved direct power control (DPC) strategy based on sliding mode control (SMC) with dual-closed-loop for the Vienna-type rectifiers to improve dynamic response during both start-up and load step change periods and guarantee better performances in steady state. The SMC based DPC methodology can directly regulate the instantaneous active and reactive powers without transforming to synchronous rotating coordinate reference frame or tracking phase angle of grid voltage; the required rectifier's control voltages can be directly calculated by utilizing the nonlinear SMC scheme. Theoretically, active and reactive power flow can be controlled without ripple or cross coupling. Finally, a DSP-controlled 2.2kW Vienna-type rectifier is used to verify the better steady-state and dynamic performances of the proposed control scheme. keywords: {Rectifiers;Reactive power;Voltage control;Mathematical model;Switches;Sliding mode control;Vienna-type rectifier;direct power control (DPC);sliding mode control (SMC);dual-closed-loop},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7392071&isnumber=7392066

H. Dehghani Tafti, A. I. Maswood, Z. Lim, G. H. P. Ooi and P. H. Raj, "A review of active/reactive power control strategies for PV power plants under unbalanced grid faults," 2015 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies - Asia (ISGT ASIA), Bangkok, Thailand, 2015, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ISGT-Asia.2015.7387144.Abstract: Fault ride through (FRT) capability is one of the challenges faced in the medium to high voltage large-scale grid-tied photovoltaic power plants (PVPPs). Besides that, due to the high penetration of installed distributed generation (DG) units, the grid voltage enhancement under unbalanced faults is a requirement of several standards and grid codes. The controller of the grid-connected inverter consists mainly of two parts: the selection of the reference active/reactive power and the calculation of the reference currents under faults. This paper reviews various strategies which are proposed in the reported literature for calculating the reference current as well as selecting the reference active/reactive power based on the grid voltage. The performances of these control strategies are investigated on the 150 kW NPC grid-connected multi-string PVPP, which is considered as the state of the art for medium power PVPPs. The PVPP is connected to the 12.47 kV medium voltage distribution system where different fault situations is simulated. keywords: {Voltage control;Inverters;Voltage fluctuations;Reactive power;Power generation;Power quality;Standards;Photovoltaic systems;Unbalanced Voltage sag;Fault Ride-Through capability;Active power control;Reactive power control;NPC inverter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7387144&isnumber=7386954

Y. K. Tao, Q. H. Wu, W. H. Tang and L. Wang, "Voltage sensorless predictive direct power control for renewable energy integration under grid fault conditions," 2015 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies - Asia (ISGT ASIA), Bangkok, Thailand, 2015, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/ISGT-Asia.2015.7387114.Abstract: With the increasing penetration of distributed generation (DG) systems based on renewable energies into the power grid, the fault ride-through capability of them is stressed by recent grid codes. Aiming to adapting this requirement, this paper proposes a voltage sensorless predictive direct power control (PDPC) for the grid-interactive DC/AC converter utilized in DG systems. In order to realize a voltage sensorless operation independent of the grid frequency deviation, a second order generalized integrator (SOGI)-based virtual flux (VF) observer is adopted. Moreover, through specific fluctuating power compensations calculated base on the estimated VF, the proposed control strategy offers positive sequence current, constant active and reactive power behaviors, respectively. Simulation studies were conducted in MATLAB/Simulink under gird fault conditions, including the grid frequency deviation, distorted grid voltage by negative sequence voltage and higher harmonics. The simulation results verify that the proposed voltage sensorless PDPC presents superior steady-state and transient performance against the foregoing grid faults. keywords: {Reactive power;Observers;Voltage control;Frequency estimation;Harmonic analysis;Simulation;Voltage sensorless control;predictive direct power control (PDPC);DC/AC converter;renewable energy integration;grid fault condition},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7387114&isnumber=7386954

A. V. Jayawardena, L. G. Meegahapola, D. A. Robinson and S. Perera, "Low-voltage ride-through characteristics of microgrids with distribution static synchronous compensator (DSTATCOM)," 2015 Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference (AUPEC), Wollongong, NSW, Australia, 2015, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/AUPEC.2015.7324823.Abstract: This paper investigates the low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) characteristics of microgrid with DSTATCOMs and microgrid capability to support the utility grid during external faults. Two approaches are taken in order to investigate the LVRT behaviour of a grid connected microgrid as a single entity. A distribution static synchronous compensator (DSTATCOM) is installed at different locations of the microgrid, and the voltage and reactive power support to the external grid is analysed. The grid connected microgrid is subjected to different operating conditions and the impact of DSTATCOM is investigated. DSTATCOM operation in a multi-microgrid environment is also investigated in this paper. keywords: {Microgrids;Yttrium;Reactive power;Circuit faults;Voltage fluctuations;Voltage control;Power quality;Distribution system;distribution static synchronous compensator (DSTATCOM);grid-connected microgrid;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7324823&isnumber=7324780

X. Wang, K. Sun, Y. Li, F. Nejabatkhah and Y. Mei, "Parallel operation of bi-directional interfacing converters in a hybrid AC/DC microgrid under unbalanced grid conditions," 2015 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Montreal, QC, Canada, 2015, pp. 4574-4581, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2015.7310307.Abstract: In order to integrate renewable energy into the utility grid with high penetration, AC/DC hybrid microgrids have obtained much attentions in recent years since they feature both advantages of AC microgrids and DC microgrids. In an AC/DC hybrid microgrid, the parallel-operated AC/DC bi-directional interfacing converters (IFCs) are key elements to connect AC bus and DC bus. When unbalanced grid faults occur at the AC bus, the active power transferred by the parallel-operated AC/DC interfacing converters is desired to be maintained constant and oscillation-free to ensure the stable operation of DC bus. However, with conventional control strategies in unbalanced grid conditions, the active power transfer capability of IFCs will be affected due to the current rating limitations. Therefore, the parallel operation of IFCs in a hybrid microgrid under unbalanced AC grid conditions is studied, and a control strategy, which enhances the active power transfer capability with zero active power oscillation, is proposed. Adjustable reference current coefficients for parallel IFCs are introduced in the proposed control strategy to enable the flexible current sharing among IFCs. By utilizing the proposed control strategy, only one IFC needs to be designed and installed with higher current rating to ensure the constant and oscillation-free output active power. Simulations and experiments have verified the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed strategy. keywords: {Oscillators;Reactive power;Microgrids;Hybrid power systems;Bandwidth;Load modeling;Simulation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7310307&isnumber=7309651

T. Neumann, T. Wijnhoven, G. Deconinck and I. Erlich, "Enhanced Dynamic Voltage Control of Type 4 Wind Turbines During Unbalanced Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 30, no. 4, pp. 1650-1659, Dec. 2015, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2015.2470126.
Abstract: The fully rated converter of type 4 wind turbines is capable of providing dynamic voltage control during grid faults by injecting controlled reactive currents. This paper describes three different dynamic voltage control options during unbalanced grid faults: 1) the positive sequence voltage control with only a positive sequence reactive current injection and suppression of the negative sequence current; 2) the positive sequence voltage control with limitation of the positive sequence reactive current injection and suppression of the negative sequence current; and 3) the positive and negative sequence voltage control with both a positive and a negative sequence reactive current injection. These different control options are compared in simulations of a wind power plant connected to a meshed power system, including synchronous generators. It is shown that both the positive sequence voltage control with limitation and the positive and negative sequence voltage control can overcome the voltage rise and voltage distortion that can occur with pure positive sequence voltage control without limitation. Both of these options have a distinct fault response, where the positive and negative sequence voltage control results in a fault response that resembles the fault response of a synchronous generator with higher fault current contributions in the faulted phases.
keywords: {Voltage control;Power system dynamics;Steady-state;Wind turbines;Current control;Generators;Reactive power;Converter;dynamic voltage control;negative sequence;unbalanced faults;wind turbines;Converter;dynamic voltage control;negative sequence;unbalanced faults;wind turbines},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7254167&isnumber=7333020


L. Hadjidemetriou, P. Demetriou and E. Kyriakides, "Investigation of different Fault Ride Through strategies for renewable energy sources," 2015 IEEE Eindhoven PowerTech, Eindhoven, Netherlands, 2015, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/PTC.2015.7232594.Abstract: The Fault Ride Through (FRT) capability of renewable energy sources (RES) for providing support to the power grid under several disturbances allows us to consider them not only as passive elements in the power system network, but also as ancillary services for the mitigation of evolving contingencies. In this paper, an investigation of the FRT operation of RES according to current grid regulations highlights some impacts on the system response that were not considered previously and require to be addressed. Slight modifications of the current grid codes are therefore necessary to solve these problems. A critical dead band zone modification for smother fault recovery is suggested. Moreover, this paper proposes the use of an adjustable parameter into the FRT strategy for a fair compromise of voltage and frequency support. The proposed FRT strategies are applied to a RES that is interconnected with the IEEE 14-bus test system and dynamic electromagnetic transient simulation results are provided. keywords: {Power system dynamics;Power system stability;Voltage control;Reactive power;Voltage fluctuations;Fluctuations;Fault ride through;power system operation;renewable energy sources;voltage;frequency stability},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7232594&isnumber=7232233

A. J. Wang, B. Y. Ma and C. X. Meng, "A frequency-locked loop technology of three-phase grid-connected inverter based on improved reduced order generalized integrator," 2015 IEEE 10th Conference on Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA), Auckland, New Zealand, 2015, pp. 730-735, doi: 10.1109/ICIEA.2015.7334204.Abstract: The quality of grid-connected current is an important index to measure the performance of grid-connected inverter, rapid and accurate detection of the grid frequency and phase is the premise of the grid-connected current control. A method of the frequency-locked loop (FLL) based on improved reduced order generalized integrator (here called ROGI-FLL) is proposed based on the present FLL technology in this paper, which is able to extract the positive and negative sequence components of the grid voltage and frequency under the condition of unbalanced grid, harmonic distortion, direct current offset and so on. The ROGI-FLL method is used in the grid-connected current control strategy without phase-locked loop, finally the feasibility and effectiveness of this method are verified by simulation and experiment. keywords: {Frequency locked loops;Inverters;Resonant frequency;Current control;Transfer functions;Frequency control;Phase frequency detector;reduced order generalized integrator;frequency-locked loop;positive and negative sequence separation;grid-connected current control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7334204&isnumber=7334072

J. Muñoz-Cruzado-Alba, J. Villegas-Núñez, J. A. Vite-Frías, E. Galván-Díez and J. M. Carrasco, "A new fast peak current controller for transient voltage faults for power converters," 2015 IEEE 15th International Conference on Environment and Electrical Engineering (EEEIC), Rome, Italy, 2015, pp. 166-171, doi: 10.1109/EEEIC.2015.7165535.Abstract: Power converters are the basic unit for transient voltage fault ride through capability for most renewable distributed generators. When a transient fault happens, the grid voltage will drop suddenly, and probably, will also suffer a phase-jump event also. State of the art voltage fault control techniques regulate the current injected during the grid fault. However, the beginning of the fault could be too fast for the inner currents control loops of the inverter, and transient over-current would be expected. In order to avoid excessive peak current of methods presented in the literature, a new fast peak current control technique is proposed. Controlling the peak current magnitude avoids undesirable disconnection of the distributed generator in a fault state and improves the life-expectancy of the converter. Experimental and simulation tests with high power converters provide detailed behaviour of the method with excellent results. keywords: {Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Delays;Inverters;Transient analysis;Generators;Pulse width modulation;Distributed Generators (DGs);Voltage Ride Through (VRT);Fast Peak Current Control (FPCC);Phase-Jump Ride Through (PJRT);Photo-Voltaic (PV) systems;dip voltage},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7165535&isnumber=7165173

L. -X. Sun, P. -F. Zhu, Z. Wang and Y. Chen, "An optimal control strategy of VSC-HVDC under unbalanced grid voltage conditions," 2015 IEEE International Conference on Cyber Technology in Automation, Control, and Intelligent Systems (CYBER), Shenyang, China, 2015, pp. 1062-1067, doi: 10.1109/CYBER.2015.7288092.Abstract: This paper presents an optimization control strategy for power control of VSC-HVDC under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. For simple implementation and flexible operation, the current references are derived and synthesized into one generalized equation introducing two individually adaptable parameters. The two parameters can be adapted to eliminate the oscillations of instantaneous active and reactive power and the currents at the grid side under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. The optimization method based on PSO algorithm is presented to determine the two parameters. The simulation is carried out with PSCAD/EMTDC, and the results show that proposed strategy is effective and feasible. keywords: {Reactive power;Power conversion;Oscillators;Mathematical model;Reactive power control;Frequency locked loops;VSC-HVDC;particle swarm optimization;unbalanced grid voltage;parameters optimization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7288092&isnumber=7287893

J. Farhang, M. Eydi, B. Asaei and B. Farhangi, "Flexible strategy for active and reactive power control in grid connected inverter under unbalanced grid fault," 2015 23rd Iranian Conference on Electrical Engineering, Tehran, Iran, 2015, pp. 1618-1623, doi: 10.1109/IranianCEE.2015.7146478.Abstract: Low voltage ride through (LVRT) requirements make an important challenge for grid connected converters during faults. This paper proposes a flexible control method for grid-connected converters under fault occurrences. This method is presented in a stationary reference frame; thus, a Phase Lock Loop (PLL) is no longer needed. In this method, the output current distortion and power oscillation during the fault will be controlled. Also, the active and reactive power fluctuations during the fault will be controlled independently. Thus, the Control system can be optimized for a variety of desired applications in order to reach the control objectives. The proposed method's performance is analyzed using simulations in Matlab/Simulink environment. keywords: {Electrical engineering;Decision support systems;Conferences;Active and reactive power control;Grid connected inverter;Power oscillation;Unbalanced grid fault},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7146478&isnumber=7146167

H. Nian, Y. Shen, H. Yang and Y. Quan, "Flexible Grid Connection Technique of Voltage-Source Inverter Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions Based on Direct Power Control," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 51, no. 5, pp. 4041-4050, Sept.-Oct. 2015, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2015.2428219.
Abstract: This paper proposes a flexible grid connection technique of a voltage-source inverter (VSI) based on a direct power control strategy under unbalanced grid conditions. Based on the mathematical model in the αβ stationary reference frame of the VSI, the generalized power reference compensation expressions for adjustable current unbalance and power fluctuations are deduced. By analyzing the active and reactive power expressions, three different algorithms based on the different control parameters are designed to make a compromise among the current negative sequence, the active power ripples, and the reactive power ripples. To satisfy the grid code, the third-harmonic current component is removed in the proposed flexible control target. Furthermore, the control scheme incorporates multiple complex coefficient filters to separate the positive and negative fundamental components of grid voltage and current to calculate the power reference compensation. The proportional-integral-resonant controller is applied to track the instantaneous power errors. The experimental results verify that the proposed control strategy is adaptive to the flexible control targets.
keywords: {Resonant frequency;Reactive power;Fluctuations;Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Inverters;Power harmonic filters;direct power control;unbalanced voltage;voltage source inverter;flexible control target;Direct power control (DPC);flexible control target;unbalanced voltage;voltage-source inverter (VSI)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7098383&isnumber=7270373


X. Zhao, X. Wu, L. Meng, J. M. Guerrero and J. C. Vasquez, "A direct voltage unbalance compensation strategy for islanded microgrids," 2015 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Charlotte, NC, USA, 2015, pp. 3252-3259, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2015.7104818.Abstract: In this paper, a control strategy with low bandwidth communications for paralleled three-phase inverters is proposed to achieve satisfactory voltage unbalance compensation. The proposed control algorithm mainly consists of voltage/current inner loop controllers, a droop controller, a selective virtual impedance loop, and an unbalance compensator. The inner loop controllers are based on the stationary reference frame to better mitigate the voltage distortion under nonlinear loads. Droop control and selective virtual impedance loop achieve accurate current-sharing when supplying both linear and nonlinear loads. Moreover, by adjusting voltage references according to the amplitude of the negative sequence voltage, the unbalance factor, which is mainly caused by single phase generators/loads, can be mitigated to an extremely low value. Finally, an AC microgrid which includes three three-phase three-leg inverters was tested in order to validate the proposed control strategy. keywords: {Voltage control;Impedance;Inverters;Power harmonic filters;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Transfer functions;Microgrids;voltage unbalance compensation;virtual impedance;droop control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7104818&isnumber=7104313

G. Bergna, M. Pirro, E. Berne, A. Arzandé, M. M. Cabrera and R. Ortega, "Modular multilevel converter passivity-based PI control suited for balanced and unbalanced grid conditions," 2015 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Seville, Spain, 2015, pp. 3072-3078, doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2015.7125552.Abstract: MMC Passivity-based PI Controller: A novel nonlinear global tracking controller was proposed by extending the regulation case. It consists in a linear PI that regulates two constructed signals with respect to which the incremental model of the MMC becomes passive. Estimation of xk: A closed-loop estimator was proposed to estimate the MMC variables in steady state needed as input for the non-linear controller. Such estimator consists on a virtual MMC energy model and both of the differential current reference equations that yielded from mathematical optimization using Lagrange multipliers. keywords: {Mathematical model;Asymptotic stability;Estimation;Capacitors;Steady-state;Trajectory;Converters},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7125552&isnumber=7125066

R. Kabiri, D. G. Holmes and B. P. McGrath, "Double synchronous frame current regulation of distributed generation systems under unbalanced voltage conditions without sequence current separation," 2015 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Charlotte, NC, USA, 2015, pp. 1822-1829, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2015.7104594.Abstract: The usual strategy for current regulation of distributed generation sources in an unbalanced three phase system is to separately control the positive and negative sequence currents using independent positive and negative synchronously rotating frame current regulators. This approach requires the measured phase currents to be separated into positive and negative sequence components before transformation into their respective synchronous rotating frames, which is computationally expensive, potentially introduces errors and compromises dynamic and transient performance (particularly for weak grids). This paper presents a simpler approach for controlling unbalanced three phase currents that does not require separation of the measured currents into their individual sequence components, and thus avoids these problems. The approach is combined with classical synchronous frame PI regulators with maximized gains, to achieve excellent unbalanced current control with a minimum of complexity. Simulation and experimental results are provided to verify the strategy. keywords: {Regulators;Current measurement;Current control;Voltage control;Oscillators;Reactive power;Pulse width modulation;unbalanced voltages;double synchronous reference frame;power oscillation control;distributed generation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7104594&isnumber=7104313

M. Zhu, L. Hang and G. Li, "Protected control method for Voltage Source Converter (VSC) in AC/DC hybrid grid under grid unbalanced faults," 2015 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Charlotte, NC, USA, 2015, pp. 2223-2229, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2015.7104658.Abstract: In AC/DC hybrid grid, the individual AC and DC grids exist. The power converters are the key power conversation interfaces between these two kinds of individual grids. Under unbalanced AC grids, the grid voltage is distorted and the harmonics is introduced. Therefore, the active and reactive power also give rise to the uncontrolled oscillations, which may damage the interface converters. In order to ensure the safety of the converters and the facilities in the grids, a proper control strategy is crucial for AC/DC hybrid grid. In this paper, the current harmonic for VSC is theoretically analyzed under unbalanced condition, furthermore methods to separate the positive- and negative- sequence components of grid voltages are summed up and analyzed. Based on the theoretical analysis, the different grid-connected converter protected control methods are analyzed and compared, and a new control method which can control the oscillations of active and reactive power by parameter k, has been proposed. Finally, the experimental results verified the validity and advantages of this proposed method. keywords: {Oscillators;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Power conversion;Power harmonic filters;Phase locked loops;Unbalanced grid voltages;digital control;protected control method;AC/DC hybrid grid;separation of positive and negative component},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7104658&isnumber=7104313

M. Mirhosseini, J. Pou and V. G. Agelidis, "Individual Phase Current Control With the Capability to Avoid Overvoltage in Grid-Connected Photovoltaic Power Plants Under Unbalanced Voltage Sags," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 30, no. 10, pp. 5346-5351, Oct. 2015, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2015.2410285.
Abstract: Independent current control of each phase of a three-phase voltage source inverter under unbalanced voltage sags is proposed to effectively meet grid code requirements for grid-connected photovoltaic power plants (GCPPPs). Under current grid codes, GCPPPs should support grid voltages by injecting reactive currents during voltage sags. Such injection must not allow the grid voltages of the nonfaulty phases to exceed 110% of their nominal value. However, grid overvoltages can occur in the nonfaulty phases, especially if the currents injected into the grid by the GCPPP are balanced. Based on a new requirement of the European network of transmission system operators published in 2012, a transmission system operator is allowed to introduce a requirement for unbalanced current injection. In this letter, this grid code is addressed by controlling individual phases and injecting unbalanced currents into the grid during voltage sags. Experimental results from a 2.8-kV.A inverter are presented, confirming the effectiveness of the proposed control method.
keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Voltage control;Power quality;Phase locked loops;Inverters;Current control;Reactive power;Photovoltaic system;Power system faults;Reactive current control;Photovoltaic system;power system faults;reactive current control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7055366&isnumber=7112252


F. -J. Lin, K. -C. Lu, T. -H. Ke, B. -H. Yang and Y. -R. Chang, "Reactive Power Control of Three-Phase Grid-Connected PV System During Grid Faults Using Takagi–Sugeno–Kang Probabilistic Fuzzy Neural Network Control," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 62, no. 9, pp. 5516-5528, Sept. 2015, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2015.2407851.
Abstract: An intelligent controller based on the Takagi-Sugeno-Kang-type probabilistic fuzzy neural network with an asymmetric membership function (TSKPFNN-AMF) is developed in this paper for the reactive and active power control of a three-phase grid-connected photovoltaic (PV) system during grid faults. The inverter of the three-phase grid-connected PV system should provide a proper ratio of reactive power to meet the low-voltage ride through (LVRT) regulations and control the output current without exceeding the maximum current limit simultaneously during grid faults. Therefore, the proposed intelligent controller regulates the value of reactive power to a new reference value, which complies with the regulations of LVRT under grid faults. Moreover, a dual-mode operation control method of the converter and inverter of the three-phase grid-connected PV system is designed to eliminate the fluctuation of dc-link bus voltage under grid faults. Furthermore, the network structure, the online learning algorithm, and the convergence analysis of the TSKPFNN-AMF are described in detail. Finally, some experimental results are illustrated to show the effectiveness of the proposed control for the three-phase grid-connected PV system.
keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Fuzzy neural networks;Fuzzy control;Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Probabilistic logic;Asymmetric membership function (AMF);grid faults;low voltage ride through (LVRT);photovoltaic system;reactive power control;Takagi- Sugeno-Kang type probabilistic fuzzy neural network (TSKPFNN);Asymmetric membership function (AMF);grid faults;low-voltage ride through (LVRT);photovoltaic (PV) system;reactive power control;Takagi–Sugeno–Kang type probabilistic fuzzy neural network (TSKPFNN)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7051250&isnumber=7182400


Q. Wang, N. Zhou and L. Ye, "Fault Analysis for Distribution Networks With Current-Controlled Three-Phase Inverter-Interfaced Distributed Generators," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 30, no. 3, pp. 1532-1542, June 2015, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2015.2407883.
Abstract: The fault current of a three-phase inverter-interfaced distributed generator (IIDG) depends on the control strategy employed during grid faults. A new short-circuit current calculation method for IIDGs is developed in this study according to the current control and reactive power support during the low-voltage ride-through operation period. To investigate how the ride-through time relates to the short-circuit current of IIDGs, short-circuit responses under different fault conditions are compared. The short-circuit current of a multi-IIDG distribution network is determined with the proposed technique to consider ride-through time and sequence current control. The correctness of the proposed method is verified by simulation.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Short-circuit currents;Power system stability;Integrated circuit modeling;Tin;Reactive power;Voltage control;Current control;distribution network;inverter-interfaced distributed generator (IIDG);ride-through time;sequence components;short-circuit current},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7051243&isnumber=7110680


S. Aiswarya, S. Ravi, V. Kumarakrishnan and V. Mezhuyev, "Design and development of MATLAB based three phase converter for unbalanced AC source with enhancement in power control," 2015 International Conference on Soft-Computing and Networks Security (ICSNS), Coimbatore, India, 2015, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/ICSNS.2015.7292376.Abstract: The main objective of this project is to design of control circuit with the zero sequence components but the proposed system will enhance the power control ability in the adverse condition. The power converter is implemented with the new control technique. In the current component zero sequence components is controlled to reduce the unbalanced nature of ac source. This power converter have the ability for the flexible control target, produces the better output power and load current during unbalanced ac source. This project will have more accurate result then the existing system. keywords: {Voltage control;Oscillators;Reactive power;Power electronics;Integrated circuit modeling;Power control;Power harmonic filters;Zero sequence components;Power converter;Load current;Current component;Control target},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7292376&isnumber=7292366

L. Hadjidemetriou, E. Kyriakides and F. Blaabjerg, "A Robust Synchronization to Enhance the Power Quality of Renewable Energy Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 62, no. 8, pp. 4858-4868, Aug. 2015, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2015.2397871.
Abstract: The increasing penetration of renewable energy sources (RESs) in the power grid requires high-quality power injection under various grid conditions. The synchronization method, usually a phase-locked loop (PLL) algorithm, is directly affecting the response of the grid-side converter of the RES. This paper proposes a new PLL algorithm that uses an advanced decoupling network implemented in the stationary reference frame with limited requirements for processing time to enable a fast and accurate synchronization even under harmonic distorted voltage and low-voltage grid faults. The robust response of the proposed PLL is validated, and the effect of the proposed synchronization on the performance of the grid-connected renewable energy system is investigated. This investigation proves that the robust, accurate, and dynamic response of the new PLL can enhance the quality of the injected power from the RES and can also enable an appropriate fault-ride-through operation under harmonic distorted voltage and grid faults.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Synchronization;Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Vectors;Harmonic distortion;Oscillators;Harmonic distortion;phase locked loop;power quality;renewable energy;synchronization;unbalanced faults;Harmonic distortion;phase-locked loop (PLL);power quality;renewable energy;synchronization;unbalanced faults},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7029012&isnumber=7137713


A. Luna et al., "Grid Voltage Synchronization for Distributed Generation Systems Under Grid Fault Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 3414-3425, July-Aug. 2015, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2015.2391436.
Abstract: The actual grid code requirements for the grid connection of distributed generation systems, mainly wind and photovoltaic (PV) systems, are becoming very demanding. The transmission system operators (TSOs) are especially concerned about the low-voltage-ride-through requirements. Solutions based on the installation of STATCOMs and dynamic voltage regulators (DVRs), as well as on advanced control functionalities for the existing power converters of distributed generation plants, have contributed to enhance their response under faulty and distorted scenarios and, hence, to fulfill these requirements. In order to achieve satisfactory results with such systems, it is necessary to count on accurate and fast grid voltage synchronization algorithms, which are able to work under unbalanced and distorted conditions. This paper analyzes the synchronization capability of three advanced synchronization systems: the decoupled double synchronous reference frame phase-locked loop (PLL), the dual second order generalized integrator PLL, and the three-phase enhanced PLL, designed to work under such conditions. Although other systems based on frequency-locked loops have also been developed, PLLs have been chosen due to their link with dq0 controllers. In the following, the different algorithms will be presented and discretized, and their performance will be tested in an experimental setup controlled in order to evaluate their accuracy and implementation features.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Synchronization;Distributed power generation;Vectors;Reactive power;Frequency estimation;Voltage fluctuations;Frequency estimation;Frequency locked loops;Harmonic analysis;Monitoring;Electrical Engineering;Electric variables measurements;Synchronization;Electric variable measurements;electrical engineering;frequency estimation;frequency-locked loops;harmonic analysis;monitoring;synchronization},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7008472&isnumber=7159116


Y. Zhang and C. Qu, "Model Predictive Direct Power Control of PWM Rectifiers Under Unbalanced Network Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 62, no. 7, pp. 4011-4022, July 2015, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2014.2387796.
Abstract: Model predictive direct power control (MPDPC) has been proposed as an effective alternative to conventional direct power control for pulsewidth-modulation (PWM) rectifiers. However, the sampling frequency of MPDPC still has to be high to achieve satisfactory performance. Furthermore, the grid currents of MPDPC would become highly distorted under unbalanced network conditions. To cope with the problems above, this paper proposes an improved MPDPC for PWM rectifiers, which is able to operate under both balanced and unbalanced grid voltages. By using a new definition of instantaneous reactive power in the predefined cost function, the proposed MPDPC can obtain sinusoidal grid currents and eliminate twice grid-frequency oscillation in both active power and the new reactive power. Neither complicated positive/negative-sequence extraction of grid voltage/current nor power compensation is required. Depending on the desired performance, two variants of the improved MPDPC are proposed and comparatively studied. At the same sampling frequency, the first approach achieves relatively low switching frequency, whereas the second approach obtains lower power ripples. Both simulation and experimental results are presented to confirm the effectiveness of the proposed methods.
keywords: {Vectors;Reactive power;Pulse width modulation;Voltage control;Oscillators;Steady-state;Cost function;Model predictive direct power control;PWM rectifier;unbalanced grid voltages;duty ratio optimization;Duty ratio optimization;model predictive direct power control (MPDPC);pulsewidth-modulation (PWM) rectifier;unbalanced grid voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7001616&isnumber=7109198


V. Valouch, M. Bejvl, P. Šimek and J. Škramlík, "Power Control of Grid-Connected Converters Under Unbalanced Voltage Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 62, no. 7, pp. 4241-4248, July 2015, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2014.2384473.
Abstract: This paper presents a grid current control technique on the power converter level. The submitted analysis deals with a control method of positive and negative current sequences in a grid-connected converter during voltage sags. The control method should assure the proper exchange of active and reactive powers without power ripple, the mitigation of harmonic distortion of grid currents, and should also enable the control of grid current peaks. A simple expression is determined, which allows estimation of maximum active and reactive powers exchanged between the grid and the converter without exceeding the admissible converter current. Some simulation and experimental results are reported to validate the theoretically predicted performance of the control strategy.
keywords: {Vectors;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Power quality;Voltage fluctuations;Current control;Unbalanced grid voltage;converter;current control;grid disturbances;power ripple;harmonic distortion;current peaks;Converter;current control;current peaks;grid disturbances;harmonic distortion;power ripple;unbalanced grid voltage},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6994283&isnumber=7109198


J. Wang, J. Liang, F. Gao, L. Zhang and Z. Wang, "A Method to Improve the Dynamic Performance of Moving Average Filter-Based PLL," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 30, no. 10, pp. 5978-5990, Oct. 2015, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2014.2381673.
Abstract: Phase-locked loop (PLL) technique is widely used for synchronization applications. A variety of moving average filter (MAF)-based PLLs have been presented in recently published literatures. MAF-based PLL can completely eliminate the effect of unbalanced voltage, characteristic harmonics, and dc offset. Unfortunately, the open-loop bandwidth is drastically reduced after incorporating MAF into the PLL structure. The problem is analyzed in detail in this paper, and it is proved to be caused by the large MAF window width which is determined by the lowest order harmonic. Then, an improved method named differential MAF-PLL (DMAF-PLL) is proposed. This method can rapidly eliminate the lowest order harmonic to narrow the MAF window width. DMAF-PLL is realized by incorporating a special proportional component into the MAF-based PLL. The special proportional component can online change its value according to the frequency of input signal, and it will not introduce phase lag, so as not to deteriorate the stability of PLL. DMAF-PLL increases the open-loop bandwidth and greatly improves the dynamic performance of MAF-based PLL, and it is easy to be implemented with low computational burden. DMAF-PLL can be used in both three-phase and single-phase voltage systems. Simulation and experimental results are included to validate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Power system stability;Bandwidth;Filtering;Transfer functions;phase-locked loop;Moving Average Filter;band-width;dynamic response;grid synchronization;Bandwidth;dynamic response;grid synchronization;moving average filter;phase-locked loop (PLL)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6987292&isnumber=7112252


L. Hadjidemetriou, E. Kyriakides and F. Blaabjerg, "An Adaptive Tuning Mechanism for Phase-Locked Loop Algorithms for Faster Time Performance of Interconnected Renewable Energy Sources," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 51, no. 2, pp. 1792-1804, March-April 2015, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2014.2345880.
Abstract: Interconnected renewable energy sources (RES) require fast and accurate fault ride through (FRT) operation, in order to support the power grid, when faults occur. This paper proposes an adaptive phase-locked loop (adaptive  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$) algorithm, which can be used for a faster and more accurate response of the grid-side converter (GSC) control of a RES, particularly under FRT operation. The adaptive  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$ is based on modifying the tuning parameters of the  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$, according to the type and voltage characteristics of the grid fault, with the purpose of accelerating the performance of the PLL algorithm. The proposed adaptive tuning mechanism adjusts the PLL parameters in real time, according to the proposed fault classification unit, in order to accelerate the synchronization performance. The beneficial effect of the proposed adaptive tuning mechanism on the performance of  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$ is verified through simulation and experimental results. Furthermore, the benefits of using a faster synchronization method on the control of the GSC of RES are also demonstrated in this paper. Additionally, a new synchronization technique named frequency–phase decoupling (FPD)-  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$ is presented, which applies an FPD technique from the literature in the structure of  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$, with the purpose of improving the performance of  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$. Finally, the adaptive tuning mechanism proposed in this paper is combined with the FPD-  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$ in order to introduce the adaptive FPD-  ${\rm d}\alpha\beta\hbox{PLL}$, which presents an even faster time performance and is an ideal solution for the synchronization of RES under grid faults.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Tuning;Synchronization;Frequency estimation;Estimation;Silicon;Acceleration;Adaptive algorithms;dc–ac power converters;fault ride through (FRT) operation;phase-locked loops (PLLs);power system faults;renewable energy sources (RES)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6872817&isnumber=7061911


X. Guo, W. Liu, X. Zhang, X. Sun, Z. Lu and J. M. Guerrero, "Flexible Control Strategy for Grid-Connected Inverter Under Unbalanced Grid Faults Without PLL," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 30, no. 4, pp. 1773-1778, April 2015, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2014.2344098.
Abstract: Power oscillation and current quality are the important performance targets for the grid-connected inverter under unbalanced grid faults. First, the inherent reason for the current harmonic and power oscillation of the inverter is discussed with a quantitative analysis. Second, a new control strategy is proposed to achieve the coordinate control of power and current quality without the need for a phase-locked loop (PLL) or voltage/current positive/negative sequence extraction calculation. Finally, the experimental tests are conducted under unbalanced grid faults, and the results verify the effectiveness of the propose method.
keywords: {Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Phase locked loops;Reactive power;Fluctuations;Current quality;grid-connected inverter;grid fault;phase-locked loop (PLL);power oscillation;weak grid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6868262&isnumber=6945409


K. Ma, W. Chen, M. Liserre and F. Blaabjerg, "Power Controllability of a Three-Phase Converter With an Unbalanced AC Source," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 30, no. 3, pp. 1591-1604, March 2015, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2014.2314416.
Abstract: Three-phase dc–ac power converters suffer from power oscillation and overcurrent problems in case of the unbalanced ac source voltage that can be caused by grid/generator faults. Existing solutions to handle these problems are properly selecting and controlling the positive- and negative-sequence currents. In this paper, a new series of control strategies which utilize the zero-sequence components are proposed to enhance the power control ability under this adverse condition. It is concluded that by introducing proper zero-sequence current controls and corresponding circuit configurations, the power converter can enable more flexible control targets, achieving better performances in the delivered power and the load current when suffering from the unbalanced ac voltage.
keywords: {Oscillators;Voltage fluctuations;Reactive power;Voltage control;Fluctuations;Generators;Control strategy;dc¿ac converter;fault tolerance;unbalanced ac source},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6780986&isnumber=6923502


M. Zhu, S. Geng, Y. Li, L. Hang and G. Li, "Protected control strategies for voltage-source-converter (VSC) under grid faults in AC/DC hybrid grid," 2014 International Power Electronics and Application Conference and Exposition, Shanghai, China, 2014, pp. 490-495, doi: 10.1109/PEAC.2014.7037905.Abstract: In AC/DC hybrid grid, the individual AC and DC grids exist. The power converters are the key interfaces between these two kinds of individual grids. Under unbalance AC grid, the grid voltage is distorted and the harmonics is involved. Therefore, the active power and reactive power also give rise to the uncontrolled oscillations, which will damage the interface converters. In order to ensure the safety of the converters and the facilities in the grids, the proper control strategy is crucial in AC/DC hybrid grids. In this paper an improved Flexible Positive- and Negative- Sequence Control method (FPNSC) used in d-q axis is proposed. From the simulating and experimental results, this new method shows its advantages compared to other classical methods such as Positive- and Negative-Sequence Control, Average Active-Reactive Control, and Balanced Positive-Sequence Control. keywords: {Reactive power;Oscillators;Topology;Voltage control;Power conversion;Hybrid power systems;protected control method;unbalanced AC grid voltages;digital control;AC/DC hybrid grid},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7037905&isnumber=7037809

L. Yaoyuan, Z. Chengbi, M. Hong and F. Wenwen, "Research on a new method to achieve low voltage ride through of PV," 2014 International Conference on Power System Technology, Chengdu, China, 2014, pp. 1628-1634, doi: 10.1109/POWERCON.2014.6993960.Abstract: To solve the conflict between limiting the current of a grid-connected photovoltaic inverter and increasing the output reactive current during voltage drop, a low voltage ride through (LVRT) method based on improved Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) control is proposed. When voltage sag occurs, an improved MPPT control based on perturbation and observation (P&O) method is adopted, adjust the operating point of the photovoltaic array to reduce the generated power, prevent the inverter from overcurrent and increase the reactive power output. Both detailed analysis and simulation results show that the method can effectively limit the output current of the inverter, achieve a reasonable allocation of active and reactive power. Consequently, the power shortage and reactive-power support issues are effectively improved. keywords: {Inverters;Photovoltaic systems;Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Reactive power;Circuit faults;photovoltaic power system (PV);maximum power point tracking (MPPT);Double-Stage Grid-connected;low voltage ride through (LVRT);reactive power support},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6993960&isnumber=6993479

M. A. Mantilla, D. J. Rincón, O. Sierra, J. F. Petit and G. Ordóñez, "Control of active and reactive powers in three phase inverters for grid-tied photovoltaic systems under unbalanced voltages," 2014 International Conference on Renewable Energy Research and Application (ICRERA), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2014, pp. 583-588, doi: 10.1109/ICRERA.2014.7016451.Abstract: This paper presents an analysis of two algorithms used to control the active and reactive powers in three phase inverters for grid-tied photovoltaic systems under unbalanced voltages in the Point of Common Coupling (PCC). The algorithms are focused on injecting balanced currents to the grid despite the voltage unbalances. The analysed algorithms are composed of two control loops: the reference signal generation and the current controller. One of the algorithms generates the reference currents in the abc coordinates and the inverter firing pulses are obtained by using a Dead-Beat controller. The other algorithm calculates the reference current in the dq0 coordinates and considers a Proportional-Integral control technique to generate the firing pulses. The synchronization of the reference signals is made by a Kalman filter in both algorithms. This filter estimates the positive sequence component of the PCC voltages in order to obtain balanced reference currents. The performance of the algorithms is verified through simulations in PSIM and the results were compared based on the following parameters: the Total Harmonic Distortion (THD) of the injected currents and the mean square errors in the active power, the reactive power and the injected currents. keywords: {Equations;Inverters;Mathematical model;Reactive power;Voltage control;Kalman filters;Photovoltaic systems;Current controllers;photovoltaic systems;reference signal generation;power inverters;voltage unbalances},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7016451&isnumber=7016393

L. Yaoyuan, Z. Chengbi, M. Hong and F. Wenwen, "Research on a new method to achieve low voltage ride through of PV," 2014 International Conference on Power System Technology, Chengdu, China, 2014, pp. 1064-1070, doi: 10.1109/POWERCON.2014.6993966.Abstract: To solve the conflict between limiting the current of a grid-connected photovoltaic inverter and increasing the output reactive current during voltage drop, a low voltage ride through (LVRT) method based on improved Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) control is proposed. When voltage sag occurs, an improved MPPT control based on perturbation and observation (P&O) method is adopted, adjust the operating point of the photovoltaic array to reduce the generated power, prevent the inverter from overcurrent and increase the reactive power output. Both detailed analysis and simulation results show that the method can effectively limit the output current of the inverter, achieve a reasonable allocation of active and reactive power. Consequently, the power shortage and reactive-power support issues are effectively improved. keywords: {Inverters;Photovoltaic systems;Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Reactive power;Circuit faults;photovoltaic power system (PV);maximum power point tracking (MPPT);Double-Stage Grid-connected;low voltage ride through (LVRT);reactive power support},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6993966&isnumber=6993479

A. Benaboud and A. Rufer, "A robust Phase-Locked-Loop approach for the generation system with power flow control," 2014 International Renewable and Sustainable Energy Conference (IRSEC), Ouarzazate, Morocco, 2014, pp. 463-468, doi: 10.1109/IRSEC.2014.7059890.Abstract: The main contribution of this paper is to describe a robust Phase-Locked-Loop approach for three phase generation system with power flow control. This method, which is used to synchronize the inverter and the network voltages, is based on a comparison between the grid and the inverter angular positions, and correction of modulator period. The Solution presented in this paper is applied to the three level three phases NPC inverter, which is connected to the grid, and using an open loop circuit for its power flow control. The limitation of the proposed method is presented, as well as the closed loop control strategy is discussed in this work, and visualizes fulfilling results. Extensive simulation and experimental results are presented to verify the effectiveness of the robust Phase-Locked-Loop approach and its application in three phase system, including the ability to operate with unity power factor and high efficiency. keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Phase locked loops;Voltage measurement;Band-pass filters;Synchronization;Load flow control;Phase Looked Loop;Frequency Converter;Three Level Inverter;Neutral Point Clamped;SWM;Power Flow Control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7059890&isnumber=7059735

M. EL Brak, S. EL Brak, M. Essaaidi and D. Benhaddou, "Wireless Sensor Network applications in smart grid," 2014 International Renewable and Sustainable Energy Conference (IRSEC), Ouarzazate, Morocco, 2014, pp. 587-592, doi: 10.1109/IRSEC.2014.7059881.Abstract: The decentralized and lightweight architecture of Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) have made them ubiquitous in several scientific, medical, military, and recently in smart grid applications. They enabled pervasive computing and the implementation of intelligent systems. Recently, they have been used in today's electric power systems, to bring about intelligence and implement some of the smart grid function in generation, delivery, distribution, and customers. They are becoming a vital component of the smart grid. Their advantages come with challenges because of harsh environment and stringent quality of service requirements. This paper describes different components of smart grid and then provides an overview of WSNs application in different part of smart grid and presents their opportunities and challenges for future work in diverse areas of smart-grid applications. The paper shows an example implementation of building monitoring system. keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Reliability;Smart grids;Logic gates;Substations;IEEE 802.15 Standards;Wireless communication;Smart Grid;renewable energy;Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7059881&isnumber=7059735

A. V. Kumar, K. Ajith, P. N. Reddy, G. R. Naik and N. Rakesh, "Improved power quality control strategy for distributed generation systems," 2014 International Conference on Smart Electric Grid (ISEG), Guntur, India, 2014, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ISEG.2014.7005582.Abstract: Distribution Generation aims at integrating different power plants to increase the reliability and provide additional power quality benefits. Coming to the grid-connected mode, almost all the commercial single-phase inverters for DG systems inject only active power to the grid, i.e., the reference current is computed from the reference active power p* that must be generated. This paper deals with a single-phase inverter acquiring power quality features, i.e., active and reactive power generation along with current harmonics compensation. This is achieved by integrating the functions of shunt Active Power Filter (APF) to the control scheme. The control scheme employs a current reference generator with a dedicated repetitive current controller. Two phase conversion of single phase system is used in this paper for the extraction of harmonic components and also for supplying required reactive power by load. The simulation results are presented for the grid connected inverter that generates active power and compensates the reactive power and current harmonics of local loads, thus achieving complete power quality features. keywords: {Inverters;Power harmonic filters;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Active filters;Steady-state;Distributed Generation (DG);Power Quality (PQ) Instantaneous Reactive Power (IRP)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7005582&isnumber=7005386

H. Hao and X. Yonghai, "Control strategy of PV inverter under unbalanced grid voltage sag," 2014 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 2014, pp. 1029-1034, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2014.6953512.Abstract: The presence of unbalanced voltage sag in grid actual operation gives rise to the output power fluctuation of PV inverter, the increasing of output current harmonics and unbalanced current. The calculation of the output current reference is a key technology in the control of PV inverter and has important influence on the output of the PV inverter under unbalanced grid voltage. Base on the instantaneous power theory, this paper proposed a calculation method of PV inverter current reference under unbalanced voltage sag. The proposed method will not bring harmonic current problems, with the benefits of selectively elimination of active power fluctuations, reactive power fluctuations or negative sequence component. In addition, the inverter output active and reactive power fluctuation can be flexibly adjusted by changing the value of the variable given in the proposed calculation method. Theoretical analysis and simulation results verify the validity of the proposed calculation method of current reference. keywords: {Fluctuations;Inverters;Reactive power;Power generation;Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Harmonic analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6953512&isnumber=6953358

H. Tian, F. Gao, C. Ma, G. He and G. Li, "A review of low voltage ride-through techniques for photovoltaic generation systems," 2014 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 2014, pp. 1566-1572, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2014.6953605.Abstract: The rapid development of photovoltaic (PV) generation systems has made the low voltage ride-through (LVRT) techniques, which is stepping forward fast, more and more important. This paper presents a review of LVRT techniques for PV generation systems, which mainly focuses on the critical techniques of fault detection and grid synchronization, current control and dc-link voltage control under various voltage dip operation conditions and overall solutions for a large-scale PV station with detailed illustration. Besides, the development trends of low voltage ride-through techniques for PV generation systems are discussed as well. keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Reactive power;Standards;Power system stability;Wind power generation;Power harmonic filters},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6953605&isnumber=6953358

G. Bergna, J. . -A. Suul, E. Berne, J. . -C. Vannier and M. Molinas, "MMC circulating current reference calculation in ABC frame by means of Lagrange Multipliers for ensuring constant DC power under unbalanced grid conditions," 2014 16th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications, Lappeenranta, Finland, 2014, pp. 1-10, doi: 10.1109/EPE.2014.6910909.Abstract: This work presents a general approach for calculating the circulating current references of Modular Multilevel Converters (MMC) based on mathematical optimization by means of Lagrange Multipliers in the ABC frame. The resulting control method is especially suitable for operation of MMCs in multi-terminal HVDC systems, under both balanced and unbalanced AC grid voltages, since it is designed for eliminating oscillations in the DC power flow independently from AC grid voltage conditions. Furthermore, it has been shown that the power flow in the DC side of the MMC is most effectively decoupled from transients in the AC grid if the main power reference of the MMC is established by the circulating current control instead of with the grid current. keywords: {Equations;Converters;Optimization;Oscillators;Current control;Mathematical model;Linear programming},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6910909&isnumber=6910682

H. Hao, X. Yonghai and Y. Lin, "Control scheme of PV inverter under unbalanced grid voltage," 2014 IEEE PES General Meeting | Conference & Exposition, National Harbor, MD, USA, 2014, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/PESGM.2014.6939135.Abstract: The effective control of photovoltaic inverter under unbalanced grid voltages is very important for the grid-connected operation of the photovoltaic system. The calculation of the output current reference is a key technology in the control of photovoltaic inverter under unbalanced voltage. Base on instantaneous active-reactive control (IARC) and average active-reactive control (AARC), this paper proposed a flexible calculation method of current reference with a variable to reduce power fluctuation and current harmonics. In order to obtain a better dynamic performance, the proportional-resonant (PR) controller is used to control positive and negative sequence simultaneously in stationary frame. At last, the simulation results verify the validity of the proposed calculation method of current reference. keywords: {Inverters;Fluctuations;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Power system harmonics;Power generation;photovoltaic inverter;output current reference;power fluctuation;current harmonics;proportional resonant controller},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6939135&isnumber=6938773

X. Guo, W. Liu, X. Zhang, H. Geng and J. M. Guerrero, "Control strategy for microgrid inverter under unbalanced grid voltage conditions," 2014 IEEE 23rd International Symposium on Industrial Electronics (ISIE), Istanbul, Turkey, 2014, pp. 2354-2358, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2014.6864987.Abstract: This paper presents the theoretical analysis of the inherent reason of current harmonic and power oscillation phenomena in case of operating the microgrid inverter under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. In order to flexibly control the current harmonic and power oscillation, a new stationary frame control strategy is proposed. It has a simple control structure due to no need of a phase-locked loop and voltage/current positive/negative sequence extraction calculation. The coordinate control of power and current quality is achieved, which enhances the operation performance of microgrid inverter. Finally, the performance evaluation tests are carried out under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. Results verify the effectiveness of the propose method. keywords: {Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Microgrids;Power system harmonics;Voltage control;Fluctuations;Reactive power;microgrid;unbalanced grid voltage;inverter;current quality;power oscillation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6864987&isnumber=6864573

Hua Geng, Qing Lv and Geng Yang, "Harmonic mitigation performance of the power inverter based DG in a AC microgrid," 2014 IEEE 23rd International Symposium on Industrial Electronics (ISIE), Istanbul, Turkey, 2014, pp. 2379-2384, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2014.6864991.Abstract: Harmonic impedance is important issue for voltage quality of the microgrid when nonlinear load exists. The distributed generator (DG) unit with different control frame and parameters would have different harmonic impedance. This paper compares the harmonic mitigation property of the current-controlled DG (CC-DG) and voltage-controlled DG (VC-DG) unit. The paper clears following results with analysis and simulations. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Impedance;Voltage control;Power harmonic filters;Microgrids;Synchronous generators;AC microgrid;Distribution Generation System;Power inverter;Harmonic voltage;Power Quality},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6864991&isnumber=6864573

M. A. Kumar, K. U. Archana and N. V. Srikanth, "Fast fault recovery of a grid integrated wind farm based HVDC Light transmission system," 2014 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies - Asia (ISGT ASIA), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 2014, pp. 453-458, doi: 10.1109/ISGT-Asia.2014.6873834.Abstract: Worldwide, wind energy is accepted as one of the foremost developed, cost-effective and proven renewable energy technologies to satisfy increasing electricity demands in an exceedingly sustainable manner. This paper investigates the fast AC fault recovery capability, fast and independent control of active and reactive power of the HVDC Light transmission system. These capabilities are most desired in future grids with high penetration of renewable energy sources like wind and solar. A negative sequence current controller is implemented for the wind turbine generator to mitigate the power oscillations and dc link voltage excursions within the HVDC Light system during fault conditions. Converters are controlled through adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system (ANFIS). The study system consisting of synchronous generator, a doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) based wind farm and voltage source converter based HVDC Light transmission system is modeled in Matlab/ Simpower Systems software. Simulation studies are carried out to demonstrate the effectiveness of the model for steady state and dynamic conditions. keywords: {HVDC transmission;Wind farms;Reactive power;Voltage control;Asia;Wind speed;Inverters;ANFIS;Doubly fed induction generator (DFIG);grid;HVDC Light;wind energy},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6873834&isnumber=6873742

S. Iyer, Bin Wu, Yunwei Li and B. N. Singh, "Asymmetrical fault ride-through of three-phase PV systems using four-wire Dc-ac converters," 2014 International Power Electronics Conference (IPEC-Hiroshima 2014 - ECCE ASIA), Hiroshima, Japan, 2014, pp. 3482-3488, doi: 10.1109/IPEC.2014.6869996.Abstract: This paper examines the fault ride-through strategy of a three-phase PV system with respect to compliance to the German Transmission Code. Specifically, the paper examines the case of a single line-ground fault which occurs predominantly in the distribution system. The paper proposes the injection of reactive power on a perphase basis to the faulty phases while maintaining active power injection to the healthy phases thereby avoiding power generation deficit. Simulation results from a study performed in MATLAB/Simulink with the SimPowerSystem toolbox present the unbalanced nature of currents during an unbalanced fault. An experimental setup has been shown and described that has been used to implement the strategy. Experimental results have been provided to validate the simulation results. keywords: {Topology;Companies;Integrated circuit modeling;Simulation;Power demand;Carbon dioxide;Wires;Grid compliance;four-wire dc-ac converter;phase locked loop;current control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6869996&isnumber=6869559

R. Kabiri, D. G. Holmes and B. P. McGrath, "Control of distributed generation systems under unbalanced voltage conditions," 2014 International Power Electronics Conference (IPEC-Hiroshima 2014 - ECCE ASIA), Hiroshima, Japan, 2014, pp. 3306-3313, doi: 10.1109/IPEC.2014.6870161.Abstract: Managing power delivery from distributed generation systems is challenging when the grid voltages are unbalanced, since the negative sequence voltage causes power oscillations at twice the fundamental grid frequency. Current regulation using sequence components can be used to control these real and reactive power oscillations, and thus help mitigate the unbalanced network voltages. This paper presents a flexible control scheme using double sequence frame current regulators that can readily adjust between eliminating real or reactive power oscillations created by unbalanced grid voltages, or alternatively simply balancing the three phase currents. The mitigation influence of these alternative control strategies on unbalanced grid voltages is then examined for resistive and reactive distribution networks. Simulation results are presented to validate the proposed control strategies and illustrate their influence on unbalanced network voltages. keywords: {Switches;Phase locked loops;Feeds;distributed generation;power oscillation control;unbalanced voltages;double synchronous frame},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6870161&isnumber=6869559

F. Blaabjerg, K. Ma and Y. Yang, "Power electronics - The key technology for Renewable Energy Systems," 2014 Ninth International Conference on Ecological Vehicles and Renewable Energies (EVER), Monte-Carlo, Monaco, 2014, pp. 1-11, doi: 10.1109/EVER.2014.6844159.Abstract: The energy paradigms in many countries (e.g. Germany and Denmark) have experienced a significant change from fossil-based resources to clean renewables (e.g. wind turbines and photovoltaics) in the past few decades. The scenario of highly penetrated renewables is going to be further enhanced - Denmark expects to be 100 % fossil-free by 2050. Consequently, it is required that the production, distribution and use of the energy should be as technologically efficient as possible and incentives to save energy at the end-user should also be strengthened. In order to realize the transition smoothly and effectively, energy conversion systems, currently based on power electronics technology, will again play an essential role in this energy paradigm shift. Using highly efficient power electronics in power generation, power transmission/distribution and end-user application, together with advanced control solutions, can pave the way for renewable energies. In light of this, some of the most emerging renewable energies, e.g. wind energy and photovoltaic, which by means of power electronics are changing character as a major part in the electricity generation, are explored in this paper. Issues like technology development, implementation, power converter technologies, control of the systems, and synchronization are addressed. Special focuses are paid on the future trends in power electronics for those systems like how to lower the cost of energy and to develop emerging power devices and better reliability tool. keywords: {Inverters;Wind turbines;Reliability;Topology;Renewable energy sources;power electronics;renewable energy systems;photovoltaic systems;wind turbine systems;reliability;advanced control;ancillary services},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6844159&isnumber=6843992

P. R. Martinez-Rodriguez, G. Escobar, A. A. Valdez-Fernandez, M. Hernandez-Gomez and J. M. Sosa, "Direct Power Control of a Three-Phase Rectifier Based on Positive Sequence Detection," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 61, no. 8, pp. 4084-4092, Aug. 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2013.2286560.
Abstract: This paper presents a model-based controller for the direct control of real and reactive powers in a three-phase three-wire rectifier. As the unbalanced operation is considered, it is convenient to express the grid voltage in terms of both positive and negative sequences, in order to obtain a more complete description of the system. In particular, the positive sequence of the grid voltage is used as the transformation basis to reconstruct the average, i.e., a particular subset, of the conventional power definition. Based on this transformation, the regulation of the average of both real and reactive powers is possible without deformation of the grid current. The proposed controller also incorporates an adaptation mechanism to cope with parameter uncertainties. For comparison purposes, a conventional controller based on the complete definition of the instantaneous powers is also presented. Experimental results are provided to assess the performance of the proposed positive-sequence-based solution and compared with those obtained using a conventional controller.
keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Vectors;Mathematical model;Control design;Pulse width modulation;Harmonic distortion;Direct power control (DPC);instantaneous powers;symmetric components;three-phase rectifier;unbalanced systems},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6642052&isnumber=6734701


Y. Yang, F. Blaabjerg and H. Wang, "Low-Voltage Ride-Through of Single-Phase Transformerless Photovoltaic Inverters," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 1942-1952, May-June 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2013.2282966.
Abstract: Transformerless photovoltaic (PV) inverters are going to be more widely adopted in order to achieve high efficiency, as the penetration level of PV systems is continuously booming. However, problems may arise in highly PV-integrated distribution systems. For example, a sudden stoppage of all PV systems due to anti-islanding protection may contribute to grid disturbances. Thus, standards featuring with ancillary services for the next-generation PV systems are under a revision in some countries. The future PV systems have to provide a full range of services as what the conventional power plants do, e.g., low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) under grid faults and grid support service. In order to map future challenges, the LVRT capability of three mainstream single-phase transformerless PV inverters under grid faults is explored in this paper. Control strategies with reactive power injection are also discussed. The selected inverters are the full-bridge (FB) inverter with bipolar modulation, the FB inverter with dc bypass, and the Highly Efficient and Reliable Inverter Concept (HERIC). A 1-kW single-phase grid-connected PV system is analyzed to verify the discussions. The tests confirmed that, although the HERIC inverter is the best candidate in terms of efficiency, it is not very particularly feasible in case of a voltage sag. The other two topologies are capable of providing reactive current during LVRT. A benchmarking of those inverters is also provided in this paper, which offers the possibility to select appropriate devices and to further optimize the transformerless system.
keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Power system stability;Modulation;Voltage control;Topology;Voltage fluctuations;Low voltage ride-through;grid support;single-phase systems;photovoltaic (PV);transformerless inverters;reactive power injection;efficiency;leakage current elimination;Efficiency;grid support;leakage current elimination;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT);photovoltaic (PV);reactive power injection;single-phase systems;transformerless inverters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6605536&isnumber=6816009


A. G. Yepes, A. Vidal, O. López and J. Doval-Gandoy, "Evaluation of Techniques for Cross-Coupling Decoupling Between Orthogonal Axes in Double Synchronous Reference Frame Current Control," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 61, no. 7, pp. 3527-3531, July 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2013.2281160.
Abstract: Current control in voltage source converters under balanced conditions is often performed by proportional-integral (PI) controllers in a single synchronous reference frame (SRF). The cross-coupling between its dq-axes is usually decoupled by a state-feedback (SF) decoupling technique, and less frequently by an alternative procedure based on complex vectors (CVs). In case of imbalance, the single SRF is commonly replaced by PI controllers in a pair of SRFs rotating with opposite sequences, which is known as double SRF control (DSRFC). It is generally assumed that the SF decoupling strategy can be applied to decouple the cross-coupling between the orthogonal axes of each SRF in DSRFC, as for a single SRF structure. This paper proves that the SF technique does not produce a noticeable improvement in DSRFC, because the terms added to each SRF interfere with those added to the opposite-sequence SRF; in addition, it is shown that the CV decoupling strategy, which has not been applied to DSRFC before, provides an enhancement in axes decoupling for low bandwidth values. Experimental results confirm the theory.
keywords: {Voltage control;Vectors;Current control;Bandwidth;Power conversion;Harmonic analysis;Current control;digital control;distributed power generation;pulsewidth modulation converters;rectifiers},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6594818&isnumber=6730700


X. Guo, X. Zhang, B. Wang, W. Wu and J. M. Guerrero, "Asymmetrical Grid Fault Ride-Through Strategy of Three-Phase Grid-Connected Inverter Considering Network Impedance Impact in Low-Voltage Grid," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 29, no. 3, pp. 1064-1068, March 2014, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2013.2278030.
Abstract: This letter presents a new control strategy of three-phase grid-connected inverter for the positive sequence voltage recovery and negative sequence voltage reduction under asymmetrical grid faults. Unlike the conventional control strategy based on an assumption that the network impedance is mainly inductive, the proposed control strategy is more flexible and effective by considering the network impedance impact, which is of great importance for the high penetration of grid-connected renewable energy systems into low-voltage grids. The experimental tests are carried out to validate the effectiveness of the proposed solution for the flexible voltage support in a low-voltage grid, where the network impedance is mainly resistive.
keywords: {Voltage control;Inverters;Impedance;Low voltage;Power control;Power quality;Reactive power;Fault ride through;flexible voltage support;grid faults;grid-connected inverter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6587279&isnumber=6603319


K. Ma, M. Liserre and F. Blaabjerg, "Operating and Loading Conditions of a Three-Level Neutral-Point-Clamped Wind Power Converter Under Various Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 520-530, Jan.-Feb. 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2013.2269894.
Abstract: In order to fulfill the growing demands from the grid side, full-scale power converters are becoming popular in the wind turbine system. The low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) requirements may not only cause control problems but also result in overstressed components for the power converter. However, the thermal loading of the wind power converter under various grid faults is still not yet clarified, particularly at megawatt power level. In this paper, the impacts by three types of grid faults to a three-level neutral-point-clamped (3L-NPC) wind power converter in terms of operating and loading conditions are analytically solved and simulated. It has been found that the operating and loading conditions of the converter under LVRT strongly depend on the types/severity values of grid voltage dips and also the chosen control algorithms. The thermal distribution among the three phases of the converter may be quite uneven, and some devices are much more stressed than the normal operating condition.
keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Wind power generation;Loading;Wind turbines;Circuit faults;Reactive power;Wind speed;Low-voltage ride through (LVRT);multilevel converter;thermal loading;wind power generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6542740&isnumber=6714460


A. Elrayyah, A. Safayet, Y. Sozer, I. Husain and M. Elbuluk, "Efficient Harmonic and Phase Estimator for Single-Phase Grid-Connected Renewable Energy Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 620-630, Jan.-Feb. 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2013.2266392.
Abstract: Renewable energy sources (RESs) in any power system can participate in removing the harmonics from the line voltage, but the RESs need to estimate these harmonics first. In this paper, an efficient method to estimate grid harmonics is proposed to be used by single-phase RESs. The proposed method provides accurate estimation for the harmonics while it has lower computation complexity than the other existing methods. To make the harmonic estimation process fast and accurate, the harmonics in the sampled grid voltage is eliminated before passing it to the phase-locked-loop block used for estimating the grid phase. Another application of the proposed method is to transform single-phase voltage or current from the stationary reference frame into the dq rotating reference frame. In this application, the use of the proposed method eliminates the need of generating fictitious voltage or current waveforms orthogonal to the measured quantities. The elimination of need to generate fictitious waveforms speeds up the transformation transients and reduces the operations to less than half of those required by traditional methods. Simulation and experimental results verified that the algorithm achieves fast and accurate harmonic estimation of highly distorted grid voltage.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Estimation;Phase locked loops;Complexity theory;Voltage measurement;Current measurement;Harmonic effect elimination;harmonic estimation;phase-locked loop (PLL);renewable energy source (RES) control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6531639&isnumber=6714460


W. Li, X. Ruan, C. Bao, D. Pan and X. Wang, "Grid Synchronization Systems of Three-Phase Grid-Connected Power Converters: A Complex-Vector-Filter Perspective," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 61, no. 4, pp. 1855-1870, April 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2013.2262762.
Abstract: Due to the significance of extracting the grid voltage information, the grid synchronization system plays an important role in the control of grid-connected power converters, and various grid voltage synchronization schemes have been proposed. This paper adopts the complex-vector-filter method (CVFM) to analyze the grid synchronization systems. With this method, the pairs of scalar signals, for example, the α- and β-axis components in the stationary α-β frame, are combined into one complex vector. As a consequence, the grid synchronization systems can be described with the complex transfer functions, which is very convenient to evaluate the steady-state performance, for example, the fundamental and harmonic sequence decoupling/cancellation, and dynamic performance of these systems. Moreover, the CVFM also provides a more generalized perspective to understand and develop the grid synchronization systems. Therefore, some of the representative systems are reanalyzed with the CVFM in this paper. A generalized second-order complex-vector filter and a third-order complex-vector filter are proposed with the CVFM to achieve better dynamic performance or higher harmonic attenuation. Moreover, a brief comparison of the complex-vector filters analyzed in this paper is presented. The effectiveness of the CVFM and the proposed two complex-vector filters are verified by the simulation and experimental results.
keywords: {Synchronization;Transfer functions;Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Phase locked loops;Attenuation;Frequency synchronization;Complex-vector filter;distributed power generation;grid synchronization;power converters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6515627&isnumber=6644298


S. Vazquez, J. A. Sanchez, M. R. Reyes, J. I. Leon and J. M. Carrasco, "Adaptive Vectorial Filter for Grid Synchronization of Power Converters Under Unbalanced and/or Distorted Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 61, no. 3, pp. 1355-1367, March 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2013.2258302.
Abstract: This paper presents a new synchronization scheme for detecting multiple positive-/negative-sequence frequency harmonics in three-phase systems for grid-connected power converters. The proposed technique is called MAVF-FLL because it is based on the use of multiple adaptive vectorial filters (AVFs) working together inside a harmonic decoupling network, resting on a frequency-locked loop (FLL) which makes the system frequency adaptive. The method uses the vectorial properties of the three-phase input signal in the αβ reference frame in order to obtain the different harmonic components. The MAVF-FLL is fully designed and analyzed, addressing the tuning procedure in order to obtain the desired and predefined performance. The proposed algorithm is evaluated by both simulation and experimental results, demonstrating its ability to perform as required for detecting different harmonic components under a highly unbalanced and distorted input grid voltage.
keywords: {Adaptive filters (AFs);frequency-locked loops (FLLs);harmonic analysis;monitoring;power converters;renewable energy;smartgrid;synchronization},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6502704&isnumber=6585782


J. G. Norniella et al., "Improving the Dynamics of Virtual-Flux-Based Control of Three-Phase Active Rectifiers," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 61, no. 1, pp. 177-187, Jan. 2014, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2013.2245614.
Abstract: Virtual flux (VF)-oriented control (VFOC) and VF-based direct power control (DPC) (VF-DPC) have been developed to improve voltage-oriented control and DPC of three-phase active rectifiers. The VF space vector is utilized in transformations between stationary and rotating coordinates in VFOC and in obtaining instantaneous power in VF-DPC. The VF space vector is calculated by integrating the grid voltage space vector. This integration is usually performed using a first-order low-pass (LP) (FOLP) filter, which counteracts the saturation and dc-drift problems associated with pure integrators. However, the dynamics of FOLP filters can be enhanced to a great extent. This paper presents a new, simple, and fast integration algorithm for VF-based control methods. Simulations and experimental tests on a VF-DPC-based system showed that the proposed algorithm leads to rapid recoveries after grid voltage sags occur. Moreover, the performance of VF-DPC under nonideal grids is discussed.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Vectors;Power harmonic filters;Reactive power;Heuristic algorithms;Rectifiers;Estimation;Direct power control (DPC);instantaneous active and reactive power;integration algorithm;power quality;three-phase active rectifier;virtual flux (VF)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6451256&isnumber=6563218


Y. Wang, W. Gong and Q. Wu, "Robust current control of doubly fed wind turbine generator under unbalanced grid voltage conditions," 2013 IEEE PES Asia-Pacific Power and Energy Engineering Conference (APPEEC), Hong Kong, China, 2013, pp. 1-4, doi: 10.1109/APPEEC.2013.6837203.Abstract: This paper presents the design of a H∞ current controller for doubly fed induction generators (DFIGs) in order to maintain stable operation under unbalanced voltage conditions. The H∞ current controller has a multi-input and multi-output (MIMO) structure and is designed using the loop shaping method. Case studies have been carried out in order to verify the efficacy of the proposed H∞ current controller for DFIGs. The case study results show that the proposed H ∞ current controller can realize different control objectives, i.e. stable stator current, stable stator active power and stable stator reactive power. It is also shown that the H ∞ current controller is less sensitive to the parameter perturbation. keywords: {Stators;Rotors;Voltage control;Resonant frequency;Robustness;Mathematical model;Wind turbines;DFIG;H∞ current controller;MIMO;unbalanced voltage conditions},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6837203&isnumber=6837104

T. Shou et al., "Harmonic current suppression for three phase PV generation system under unbalanced grid voltage," 2013 IEEE PES Asia-Pacific Power and Energy Engineering Conference (APPEEC), Kowloon, 2013, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/APPEEC.2013.6837219.Abstract: The ride-through operation of photovoltaic (PV) generation under unbalanced grid voltage will produce apparent harmonic current. This paper studies on power control of PV under unbalanced voltage, and has analyzed the total harmonic distortion (THD) and each order of the harmonics in the inverter currents. Then the analytic formulas of power fluctuation, current THD and each order of current harmonic of the PV inverter are derived, and two algorithms of the adjustment coefficients of PV power control are proposed. The control strategy model of current harmonic suppression under unbalanced grid voltage is built. The feasibility of this method is verified by the simulation result produced by PSCAD/EMTDC. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Fluctuations;Reactive power;Voltage control;Photovoltaic systems;photovoltaic;unbalanced grid voltage;harmonic suppression;odd harmonic;power fluctuation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6837219&isnumber=6837104

X. Chen, Y. Zhang, J. Yang, Y. Chen, Q. Wang and N. Zhou, "Improved power control of photovoltaic generation system under unbalanced grid voltage conditions," 2013 IEEE PES Asia-Pacific Power and Energy Engineering Conference (APPEEC), Hong Kong, China, 2013, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/APPEEC.2013.6837218.Abstract: In order to ride through the unbalanced grid fault, the output power of photovoltaic inverter will fluctuate and its output current will rise and distort under unbalanced grid voltage. This paper proposes an improved formula of reference current and its optimal coefficients method for the photovoltaic inverter under unbalanced grid voltage sag, taking into account the requirements of active and reactive power control. Then the analytic formula of its current harmonic distortion, three-phase current peak, active and reactive power fluctuation, DC voltage fluctuation and the control factor of its output current reference were derived. Considering the constraints of inverter phase current and the dc voltage fluctuation of capacitance in dc side, the optimal model of inverter current reference was established with minimum integrated amplitude of the active and reactive power function as a goal. The correctness of the proposed method has been verified by PSCAD/EMTDC simulation software. keywords: {Fluctuations;Voltage fluctuations;Voltage control;Reactive power;Inverters;Power control;Harmonic distortion;unbalanced voltage sag;photovoltaic;power control;current peak;DC voltage fluctuation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6837218&isnumber=6837104

L. Hadjidemetriou, E. Kyriakides and F. Blaabjerg, "A grid side converter current controller for accurate current injection under normal and fault ride through operation," IECON 2013 - 39th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Vienna, Austria, 2013, pp. 1454-1459, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2013.6699347.Abstract: Modern grid codes for interconnection of distributed energy resources have become more restrictive due to the massive integration of renewable energy sources. The interconnected renewable energy sources must operate accurately under normal and abnormal grid conditions in order to meet the grid requirements. In addition, the renewable energy systems require fault ride through capability in order to support the power grid under balanced or unbalanced low voltage grid faults. Therefore, the development of advanced current controller techniques is essential for the grid side power electronic converters in order to increase the renewable energy systems penetration and satisfy the grid codes. This paper proposes a current controller technique, which enables the appropriate operation of the grid side converter under unbalanced grid faults and harmonic distorted grid conditions. The proposed current controller is designed using multiple synchronous reference frames and can inject full positive or full negative sequence balanced sinusoidal currents under abnormal grid conditions. The accurate performance with robustness against unbalanced and harmonic distorted grid voltage indicates that the proposed current controller can be a useful tool in the fault ride through control of renewable energy systems. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Harmonic distortion;Reactive power;Power harmonic filters;Oscillators;Voltage fluctuations;current controller;harmonic distorion;fault ride through control;grid side converter;renewable energy systems;multiple sychronous reference frames;unbalanced grid faults},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6699347&isnumber=6699103

A. K. Morya, A. Shukla and S. Doolla, "Control of grid connected cascaded H-bridge multilevel converter during grid voltage unbalance for photovoltaic application," IECON 2013 - 39th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Vienna, Austria, 2013, pp. 7990-7995, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2013.6700468.Abstract: With a large penetration of distributed power, transmission system operators (TSO) have more stringent demands regarding the interconnection of the distributed power generation system (DPGS) to the utility grid in order to maintain a stable power system. Among the new demands, power generation systems are requested to ride through grid disturbances and to provide ancillary services in order to behave as a conventional power plant. So, they should have the capability to sustain the utility network in the situation of grid voltage unbalance. Therefore, the control of DPGS under the grid voltage unbalance is important. In this paper, control of cascaded H-bridge (CHB) multilevel converter for grid integration of large scale photovoltaic power plants during grid voltage unbalance has been analysed. Operation for feeding constant power to the grid has been investigated and it has been found that it is not possible as loading of cells of CHB will be different which will cause the dc link voltages to diverge. A control technique based on negative sequence current control has been used to equalize the loading of cells. keywords: {Voltage control;Loading;Current control;Inverters;Reactive power;Vectors;Switches;Cascaded H-bridge inverter;grid-connected PV systems;maximum power point tracking (MPPT);multilevel converter;photovoltaic systems;renewable energy;space vector pulse width modulation;voltage unbalance;symmetrical components},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6700468&isnumber=6699103

Y. . -T. Chen, Y. . -F. Chen, C. . -Y. Tang, Y. . -M. Chen and Y. . -R. Chang, "An active power conditioner with a multi-mode power control strategy for a microgrid," 2013 1st International Future Energy Electronics Conference (IFEEC), Tainan, Taiwan, 2013, pp. 93-97, doi: 10.1109/IFEEC.2013.6687485.Abstract: The objective of this paper is to propose an active power conditioner (APC) with a multi-mode power control strategy for a microgrid. The proposed APC is able to self-control the direction and magnitude of power flow between the dc bus and the AC line in a microgrid. The power control strategy of the proposed APC is characterized into the DC mode and the AC mode. In DC mode, the proposed APC will transfer active power from/to the AC line to regulate the DC bus voltage. On the other hand, the proposed APC will try to stabilize the AC line by delivering active/reactive power from the DC bus to the AC line. The operation principle of the proposed multi-mode power control strategy is introduced. A 5 kVA prototype APC with experimental results are shown to verify the validity of the proposed APC with multi-mode power control strategy. keywords: {Microgrids;Equations},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6687485&isnumber=6687459

G. Bergna, J. A. Suul, E. Berne, P. Egrot, J. -C. Vannier and M. Molinas, "Analysis of Modular Multilevel Converters under unbalanced grid conditions with different load current control strategies and Lagrange-based differential current control," 2013 1st International Future Energy Electronics Conference (IFEEC), Tainan, Taiwan, 2013, pp. 669-674, doi: 10.1109/IFEEC.2013.6687588.Abstract: This work studies the performance of the Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC) under unbalanced conditions when the internal circulating currents are controlled to follow a reference value given by Lagrange-based optimization applied in the abc frame. The Lagrange-based current reference calculation is constrained to ensure that the MMC is providing constant, non-oscillatory, power flow at the DC-side even the case the AC grid voltage is unbalanced. Such operation can be achieved by the investigated Lagrange-based control while either controlling the differential currents of the MMC to have only a DC-component or while minimizing the sum energy oscillations in each phase of the MMC. The objective of preventing DC power oscillations can also be achieved independently of the power control strategy applied to control the three-phase currents on the AC side of the converter. The operation of the MMC is studied with three different objectives for the control of the AC currents: 1) Constant instantaneous three-phase power with sinusoidal currents, 2) Balanced sinusoidal three-phase currents, and 3) Constant instantaneous reactive power with sinusoidal currents. The impact of these different AC power control strategies on the oscillations of capacitor voltages and stored energy in the MMC is then analyzed and discussed, verifying how the Lagrange-based control is always able to keep the DC power flow free of second harmonic oscillations. keywords: {Irrigation;Rendering (computer graphics);Smoothing methods;Inductors},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6687588&isnumber=6687459

G. M. S. Azevedo, M. C. Cavalcanti, F. A. S. Neves, L. R. Limongi and F. Bradaschia, "A control of microgrid power converter with smooth transient response during the change of connection mode," 2013 Brazilian Power Electronics Conference, Gramado, Brazil, 2013, pp. 1008-1015, doi: 10.1109/COBEP.2013.6785238.Abstract: The microgrid structure needs, at least, one power converter able to work as a grid-forming converter. In fact, such converter must present two operations modes: grid-forming when the main grid is outage; grid-following (or grid-supporting) when the main grid is available. This paper presents a control scheme that allows this microgrid power converter operates in both operations mode (grid-forming and grid-supporting). Besides, the transient response during the operation mode changes occurs smoothly. Results of simulations and experiments are presented to prove the feasibility and performance of the proposed control scheme. keywords: {Voltage control;Microgrids;Synchronization;Inverters;Oscillators;Control systems;Pulse width modulation;Distributed generation;Grid synchronization;Microgrids;Parallel inverters},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6785238&isnumber=6785077

F. Blaabjerg, Y. Yang and K. Ma, "Power electronics - Key technology for renewable energy systems - Status and future," 2013 3rd International Conference on Electric Power and Energy Conversion Systems, Istanbul, Turkey, 2013, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/EPECS.2013.6712980.Abstract: The energy paradigms in many countries (e.g. Germany and Denmark) have experienced a significant change from fossil-based resources to clean renewables in the past few decades. The scenario of highly penetrated renewables is going to be further enhanced. This requires that the production, distribution and use of the energy should be as technological efficient as possible and incentives to save energy at the end-user should also be strengthened. In order to realize the transition smoothly and effectively, energy conversion systems, currently based on power electronics technology, will again play an essential role. Using highly efficient power electronics in power generation, power transmission/distribution and end-user application, together with advanced control solutions, can pave the way for renewable energies. In view of this, some of the most emerging renewable energies, e.g. wind energy and photovoltaic, which by means of power electronics are changing character as a major part in the electricity generation, are explored in this paper. Issues like technology development, implementation, power converter technologies, control of the systems, and synchronization are addressed. Special focuses are paid on the future trends in power electronics for those systems. keywords: {Generators;Reliability;Wind power generation;Power grids;Gears;Resistance;Acceleration;power electronics;renewable energy systems;photovoltaic systems;wind turbine systems;reliability;advanced control;ancillary services},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6712980&isnumber=6712977

L. Zhou, J. Liu, S. Zhou and Y. Zhu, "Research on LVRT capability of DFIG with demagnetization control," 2013 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Denver, CO, USA, 2013, pp. 2277-2282, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2013.6646991.Abstract: With the stator directly connected to the grid, doubly-fed induction generator is very sensitive to grid disturbance. Demagnetization control depresses the influence of grid fault by accelerating the damping of natural stator flux linkage, improving the performance of doubly-fed induction generator. However, the influence of demagnetization control to the low voltage ride-through capability is still not clear. System performance with demagnetization control is analyzed in this paper. The influence of natural stator flux damping to the low voltage ride-through capability is also discussed in this paper and it is indicated that demagnetization control could minimum the occurrence of crowbar interruptions during balanced grid fault recovery, which is helpful to the system. Simulations have been carried out and the results demonstrated the analysis. keywords: {Stators;Demagnetization;Rotors;Circuit faults;Damping;Reactive power;Resistance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6646991&isnumber=6646663

S. Liu, L. Hang, L. M. Tolbert and Z. Lu, "A novel strategy for vienna-type rectifier with light unbalanced input voltage," 2013 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Denver, CO, USA, 2013, pp. 4253-4257, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2013.6647268.Abstract: A natural abc frame based current control loop, which considerably reduces total algorithm complexity, and also helps to reduce the reactive components size and total loss in comparison to the traditional dual current control schemes, is proposed for a Vienna rectifier under unbalanced input conditions. Experimental results are presented to verify the validity of the proposed controller. keywords: {Voltage control;Rectifiers;Reactive power;Synchronization;Delta-sigma modulation;Mathematical model;Switches;light unbalanced input voltage;Vienna-type rectifier;dc-link voltage ripples elimination;power factor corrector;stationary operation region},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6647268&isnumber=6646663

D. I. Brandão, F. P. Marafão, H. K. M. Paredes and A. Costabeber, "Inverter control strategy for DG systems based on the Conservative power theory," 2013 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Denver, CO, USA, 2013, pp. 3283-3290, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2013.6647131.Abstract: Considering that typical distributed generators are equipped with a switching power interface and most of them have a DC-AC converter, this paper deals with a multi task control strategy for distributed generation (DG) inverters. Such strategy simultaneously allows the DG systems to inject the available energy, as well as to work as a voltage drop compensator or an active power filter, mitigating load current disturbances and improving power quality. The main difference of the proposed methodology with respect to others in the literature is that the proposed control loops are based on the Conservative Power Theory decompositions. This provides decoupled power and current references for the inverter control, offering a very flexible, selective and powerful strategy for the DG control system. The paper also discusses the choice of the waveform reference for injecting/absorbing active power into/from the grid, and both sinusoidal and resistive current injection have been compared. Finally, simulation and experimental results are reported in order to validate the proposed functionalities of the DG control strategies. keywords: {Voltage control;Inverters;Voltage measurement;Active filters;Current control;Power quality;Reactive power},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6647131&isnumber=6646663

Y. Yasa, Y. Sozer and E. Mese, "Harmonic analysis of doubly fed induction generator based utility interactive wind turbine systems during fault conditions," 2013 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Denver, CO, USA, 2013, pp. 2270-2276, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2013.6646990.Abstract: This paper presents a detailed analysis of the doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) and converters by taking into account magnetic saturation of both DFIG and step-up transformer under symmetrical and asymmetrical faults. 2.5 MW DFIG is modeled through Finite Element Analysis software package and coupled with circuit and dynamic system simulators for accurate electromagnetic, drive and controller simulations. The effects of different type of utility grid faults on the DFIG rotor fluxes are analyzed and the FFT analysis of the rotor fluxes is carried to correlate the harmonic content of the rotor fluxes with the fault types. The study would provide guidance in developing advanced control and protection techniques for the DFIG system during fault conditions. The simulation results are verified with the 7.5 Hp experimental DFIG system. keywords: {Circuit faults;Rotors;Harmonic analysis;Wind turbines;Analytical models;Stator windings},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6646990&isnumber=6646663

L. Hadjidemetriou, E. Kyriakides and F. Blaabjerg, "An adaptive Phase-Locked Loop algorithm for faster fault ride through performance of interconnected renewable energy sources," 2013 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Denver, CO, USA, 2013, pp. 2619-2626, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2013.6647039.Abstract: Interconnected renewable energy sources require fast and accurate fault ride through operation in order to support the power grid when faults occur. This paper proposes an adaptive Phase-Locked Loop (adaptive dαβPLL) algorithm, which can be used for a faster and more accurate response of the grid side converter control of a renewable energy source, especially under fault ride through operation. The adaptive dαβPLL is based on modifying the control parameters of the dαβPLL according to the type and voltage characteristic of the grid fault with the purpose of accelerating the performance of the phase-locked loop algorithm. The adaptive parameters are adjusted in real time according to the proposed fault classification unit, which permits a fast estimation of the type of the grid fault. The outstanding performance of the proposed adaptive PLL is verified through simulation and experimental results. Furthermore, the benefits of using the proposed adaptive PLL on the control of the GSC of RES are also demonstrated in this paper. keywords: {Phase locked loops;Frequency estimation;Estimation;Tuning;Voltage control;Classification algorithms;Synchronization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6647039&isnumber=6646663

Z. Zou, Z. Wang and M. Cheng, "Analysis, design, and implementation of multifunction interfaced inverters for distributed generation," 2013 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Denver, CO, USA, 2013, pp. 224-229, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2013.6646704.Abstract: This paper presents generalized models and design procedure for multi-function power electronics interfaced distributed generator (DG). To meet the mandatory requirements of distributed grid, the operational modes of DG consists of normal power delivery mode and multi-function mode, which aim to provide very sinusoidal active power current and compensating current simultaneously. A LCL based filter is placed between interfaced inverter outputs and the distributed network to smooth the output current of DG. The key of the multi-function concept for DG are the filter resonance alleviation, optimal control design, and flexible implementation. In this paper, the equivalent model of multifunction DG is developed first. Then, the proposed control strategy integrating odd-harmonic repetitive control (OHRC) and PR controller is determined to offer zero steady-state tracking error and good dynamic performance according to the equivalent model. A design procedure of LCL filter is also presented, while a cascade closed-loop control structure is employed to reduce the resonance effect. Furthermore, a multiple resonant control (MRC) scheme is discussed and compared with the proposed OHRC scheme based on their internal relationship. Experimental results are provided to validate the effectiveness and advantages of the proposed control strategy. keywords: {Power harmonic filters;Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Resonant frequency;Active filters;Power system stability},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6646704&isnumber=6646663

Y. Yang, F. Blaabjerg and H. Wang, "Low voltage ride-through of single-phase transformerless photovoltaic inverters," 2013 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Denver, CO, USA, 2013, pp. 4762-4769, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2013.6647340.Abstract: Transformerless photovoltaic (PV) inverters are going to be more widely adopted in order to achieve high efficiency, as the penetration level of PV systems is continuously booming. However, problems may arise in highly PV-integrated distribution systems. For example, a sudden stoppage of all PV systems due to anti-islanding protection may trigger grid disturbances. Thus, standards featuring with ancillary services for the next generation PV systems are under a revision in some countries. The future PV systems have to provide a full range of services as what the conventional power plants do, e.g. Low Voltage Ride-Through (LVRT) under grid faults and grid support service. In order to map future challenges, the LVRT capability of three mainstream single-phase transformerless PV inverters under grid faults are explored in this paper. Control strategies with reactive power injections are also discussed. The selected inverters are the full-bridge inverter with bipolar modulation, full-bridge inverter with DC bypass and the Highly Efficient and Reliable Inverter Concept (HERIC). A 1 kW single-phase grid-connected PV system is analyzed to verify the discussions. The tests confirmed that, although the HERIC inverter is the best candidate in terms of efficiency, it is not very feasible in case of a voltage sag. The other topologies are capable of providing reactive current during LVRT. A benchmarking of those inverters is also provided, which offers the possibility to select appropriate devices and to further optimize the system. keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Voltage fluctuations;Voltage control;Power system stability;Modulation;Topology},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6647340&isnumber=6646663

F. Blaabjerg and K. Ma, "Future on Power Electronics for Wind Turbine Systems," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 139-152, Sept. 2013, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2013.2275978.
Abstract: Wind power is still the most promising renewable energy in the year of 2013. The wind turbine system (WTS) started with a few tens of kilowatt power in the 1980s. Now, multimegawatt wind turbines are widely installed even up to 6-8 MW. There is a widespread use of wind turbines in the distribution networks and more and more wind power stations, acting as power plants, are connected directly to the transmission networks. As the grid penetration and power level of the wind turbines increase steadily, the wind power starts to have significant impacts to the power grid system. Therefore, more advanced generators, power electronic systems, and control solutions have to be introduced to improve the characteristics of the wind power plant and make it more suitable to be integrated into the power grid. Meanwhile, there are also some emerging technology challenges, which need to be further clarified and investigated. This paper gives an overview and discusses some development trends in the technologies used for wind power systems. First, the developments of technology and market are generally discussed. Next, several state-of-the-art wind turbine concepts, as well as the corresponding power electronic converters and control structures, are reviewed, respectively. Furthermore, grid requirements and the technology challenges for the future WTS are also addressed.
keywords: {Wind turbines;Wind power generation;Power electronics;Generators;Power grids;Topology;Rotors;Future power electronics;wind power},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6573352&isnumber=6605654


S. K. Chaudhary, Ö. Göksu, R. Teodorescu and P. C. Kjaer, "Impact of negative sequence current injection by wind power plants," 2013 IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2013, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/PESMG.2013.6673073.Abstract: This paper presents an analysis of the impact from negative sequence current injection by wind power plants in power systems under steady-state and short-term unbalanced conditions, including faults. The separate positive and negative sequence current control capability of the grid-side converters of full scale converter type wind turbines may be utilized to alter voltage imbalance at the point of connection and further into the grid, in turn changing the resultant negative sequence current flow in the grid. The effects of such control actions have been analyzed and discussed through theoretical as well as simulation studies. keywords: {Steady-state;Impedance;Wind power generation;Power systems;Wind turbines;Admittance;Resistance;Full scale converter;negative sequence current;wind power plants},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6673073&isnumber=6672065

Y. Han, "Reactive power capabilities of DFIG-based wind park for low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) performance," 2013 International Conference on Quality, Reliability, Risk, Maintenance, and Safety Engineering (QR2MSE), Chengdu, China, 2013, pp. 1992-1996, doi: 10.1109/QR2MSE.2013.6625971.Abstract: This paper presents the principles and control schemes for the double-fed induction generator (DFIG)-based wind park. The wind turbine power tracking characteristics and the power flow mechanism of the DFIG-based wind plant are analyzed. The control strategies are presented, including the rotor-side converter (RSC) control, grid-side converter (GSC) converter and the pitch angle control. The voltage regulation mode and var regulation mode are analyzed using control block diagram and the comparison of the simulation results. It is found that voltage regulation mode and reactive power capabilities are effective for low-voltage ride-through performances of the DFIG wind park. keywords: {Wind turbines;Voltage control;Reactive power;Induction generators;Voltage fluctuations;Regulators;Rotors;double-fed induction generator (DFIG);wind park;low-voltage ride through (LVRT);voltage regulation;grid-integration},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6625971&isnumber=6625514

X. Bao, P. Tan, F. Zhuo and X. Yue, "Low voltage ride through control strategy for high-power grid-connected photovoltaic inverter," 2013 Twenty-Eighth Annual IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Long Beach, CA, USA, 2013, pp. 97-100, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2013.6520192.Abstract: This paper presents a low voltage ride through (LVRT) control strategy for high-power grid-connected photovoltaic (PV) inverter, which can assure the PV inverter operates under grid faults with sinusoidal output currents. The control strategy of PV inverter is made up of inner current loops and outer voltage loop in a cascade structure under normal working conditions. The outer loop regulates the voltage on dc-link capacitance to the maximum power point of PV arrays, and the inner current loops are composed of four closed loops for positive sequence and negative sequence in synchronous reference frame. If the low voltage fault signal has been detected, the control system should shift to single loops control strategy for low voltage ride through. Finally, a laboratory prototype of 150 kW PV inverter with LCL filter has been implemented to test the theoretical analysis. The feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed LVRT control strategy have been verified by simulation and experimental results. keywords: {Inverters;Low voltage;Voltage fluctuations;Simulation;Photovoltaic systems;Voltage control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6520192&isnumber=6520164

T. -S. Hwang and S. -Y. Park, "DC power ripple minimization of LCL filter based distributed generation inverter under unbalanced voltage conditions," 2013 Twenty-Eighth Annual IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Long Beach, CA, USA, 2013, pp. 321-328, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2013.6520228.Abstract: This paper presents how to minimize a dc power ripple of the LCL filter based distributed generation (DG) inverter under unbalanced operating conditions. Due to the grid fault, the dc power ripple is generated and influenced the life cycle of renewable energy power plant such as photovoltaic systems or fuel cell stacks. In order to minimize the dc power ripple, a modified dq-axis current control with improved current reference is proposed, because the conventional current reference is acceptable only for the L filter based DG inverter but limited for LCL filter based DG inverters. With the proposed modified dq-axis current loop, the dc power ripple is reduced effectively. The proposed control strategy will reduce the impact to the renewable energy sources from the grid fault. As a result, the constant dc power generation of the DG inverter will enhance the stability and reliability of the renewable energy sources. Theoretical equations of voltage, current, and power are well derived. Simulation and hardware-in-the loop experimental results validated the proposed control method under unbalanced operating conditions. keywords: {Inverters;Vectors;Voltage control;Current control;Equations;Power harmonic filters;Renewable energy sources},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6520228&isnumber=6520164

K. Ma, M. Liserre and F. Blaabjerg, "Power controllability of three-phase converter with unbalanced AC source," 2013 Twenty-Eighth Annual IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Long Beach, CA, USA, 2013, pp. 342-350, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2013.6520231.Abstract: Three-phase DC-AC power converters suffer from power oscillation and overcurrent problems in case of unbalanced AC source voltage that can be caused by grid/generator faults. Existing solutions to handle these problems are properly selecting and controlling the positive and negative sequence currents. In this work a new series of control strategies which utilize the zero-sequence components are proposed to enhance the power control ability under this adverse condition. It is concluded that by introducing proper zero sequence current controls and corresponding circuit configurations, the power converter can enable more flexible control targets, achieving better performances in the delivered power and load current when suffering from unbalanced AC source. keywords: {Oscillators;Reactive power;Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Generators;Current control;Power control;DC-AC converter;Unbalanced AC source;Control strategy;Fault tolerance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6520231&isnumber=6520164

S. Dasgupta, S. N. Mohan, S. K. Sahoo and S. K. Panda, "A complex notch filter based approach to device the control strategy for a generalized unbalanced grid connected distributed generator," 2013 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Cape Town, South Africa, 2013, pp. 1716-1721, doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2013.6505934.Abstract: In this paper, a p-q theory based approach, using Complex Notch Filter, is proposed to control active and reactive power flow of a distributed generator connected to a generalized unbalanced grid. The proposed method facilitates high bandwidth grid power flow control along with maintaining sinusoidal grid currents by finding suitable inverter current references directly in the a-b-c frame. The proposed method is faster than the conventional methods because of the absence of the Phase Lock Loop and Park's transformation requirement. A novel method of extracting the phase angle of the fundamental grid voltage is proposed. A Complex Notch Filter based method for extracting positive and negative sequence components together with filtering grid voltage harmonics is also proposed to reduce the computational burden on the processor. The method is devised for a generalized three-phase system. The proposed method is validated through rigorous tests and experimental results presented depict the efficacy of the proposed method. keywords: {Vectors;Power harmonic filters;Inverters;Filtering theory;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Frequency estimation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6505934&isnumber=6505636

J. Miret, A. Camacho, M. Castilla, L. G. de Vicuña and J. Matas, "Control Scheme With Voltage Support Capability for Distributed Generation Inverters Under Voltage Sags," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 28, no. 11, pp. 5252-5262, Nov. 2013, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2013.2246190.
Abstract: Voltage sags are one of the main problems in transmission and distribution grids with high penetration of distributed generation. This paper proposes a voltage support control scheme for grid-connected power sources under voltage sags. The control is based on the injection of reactive current with a variable ratio between positive and negative sequences. The controller determines, also, the amount of reactive power needed to restore the dropped voltage magnitudes to new reference values confined within the continuous operation limits required in grid codes. These reference values are chosen in order to guarantee low current injection when fulfilling the voltage support objective. Selected experimental results are reported in order to validate the effectiveness of the proposed control.
keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Inverters;Voltage control;Power quality;Photovoltaic systems;Vectors;Standards;Distributed generation;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT);reactive power injection;voltage sag},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6459042&isnumber=6513254


K. Ma, F. Blaabjerg and M. Liserre, "Thermal Analysis of Multilevel Grid-Side Converters for 10-MW Wind Turbines Under Low-Voltage Ride Through," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 49, no. 2, pp. 909-921, March-April 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2013.2240643.
Abstract: As the power level of a single wind turbine is continuously pushed up even to 7 MW, the wind power generation systems are required to be more reliable and able to withstand extreme grid disturbances. Moreover, it is becoming a need that the wind power generation system should be more active in the power network and able to contribute to the grid recovery by injecting reactive current during grid faults. Consequently, the full-scale power converter solutions are becoming more and more popular to fulfill the growing challenges in the wind power application. Nevertheless, the loading of the power devices in full-scale power converters, particularly during grid faults, may compromise the reliability performance and further increase the cost of the system. In this paper, three promising grid-side multilevel converter topologies for the next-generation 10-MW wind turbines are proposed and basically designed as case study. The operation status, as well as the reliability-related performances, is investigated aimed at various low-voltage ride through (LVRT) conditions. It is found that all of the proposed converter topologies will suffer from higher junction temperature in some heavily loaded power devices (particularly the diodes) under LVRT operation. Moreover, the three-level and five-level H-bridge topologies show more potential to reduce the inequality and level of device stress than the well-known three-level neutral point clamped topology.
keywords: {Topology;Switches;Wind turbines;Wind power generation;Wind speed;Reliability;Low voltage;Low-voltage ride through (LVRT);multilevel converter;thermal analysis;wind power generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6413208&isnumber=6480818


C. Wessels, N. Hoffmann, M. Molinas and F. W. Fuchs, "StatCom control at wind farms with fixed-speed induction generators under asymmetrical grid faults," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 7, pp. 2864-2873, July 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2233694.
Abstract: The stability of fixed-speed induction generator (FSIG)-based wind turbines can be improved by a StatCom, which is well known and documented in the literature for balanced grid voltage dips. Under unbalanced grid voltage dips, the negative-sequence voltage causes heavy generator torque oscillations that reduce the lifetime of the drive train. In this paper, investigations on an FSIG-based wind farm in combination with a StatCom under unbalanced grid voltage fault are carried out by means of theory, simulations, and measurements. A StatCom control structure with the capability to coordinate the control between the positive and the negative sequence of the grid voltage is proposed. The results clarify the effect of the positive- and the negative-sequence voltage compensation by a StatCom on the operation of the FSIG-based wind farm. With first priority, the StatCom ensures the maximum fault-ride-through enhancement of the wind farm by compensating the positive-sequence voltage. The remaining StatCom current capability of the StatCom is controlled to compensate the negative-sequence voltage, in order to reduce the torque oscillations. The theoretical analyses are verified by simulations and measurement results on a 22-kW laboratory setup.
keywords: {Automatic voltage control;Torque;Induction generators;Wind farms;Power system stability;Induction generator;low-voltage ride through;StatCom;wind energy},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6380616&isnumber=6472101


G. Yin, L. Guo and X. Li, "An Amplitude Adaptive Notch Filter for Grid Signal Processing," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 28, no. 6, pp. 2638-2641, June 2013, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2012.2226752.
Abstract: This letter presents an amplitude adaptive notch filtering (AANF) as a tool for grid signal processing and synchronization of distributed generation systems that provide improvement solutions for both grid-connected and stand-alone mode of microgrids. The proposed technique is simple and offers a high degree of immunity and insensitivity to power disturbances, especially when the signal amplitude varies. Since the powerful technique can reduce impact of the amplitude variation of signal, it has a wider range of application and can take the place of the traditional ANF in the microgrids. This technique can also be used in the detection of symmetrical components, harmonics, active power, and reactive power. Theoretical analysis is presented and the performance of the method is evaluated by simulation.
keywords: {Synchronization;Phase locked loops;Power harmonic filters;Adaptive filters;Frequency estimation;Equations;Power electronics;Amplitude adaptive notch filter (AANF);amplitude variation;frequency tracking;random grid signal},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6352925&isnumber=6376188


M. Juelsgaard, J. Bendtsen and R. Wisniewski, "Utilization of Wind Turbines for Upregulation of Power Grids," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 7, pp. 2851-2863, July 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2225395.
Abstract: This work considers the use of wind turbines for aiding upregulation of an electrical grid, by employing temporary overproduction with respect to available power. We present a simple model describing a turbine and show how the possible period of overproduction can be maximized by solving a series of convex problems, where the load is distributed among several turbines in a farm. Thereafter, we present an optimization scheme that guarantees a lower limit for the overproduction period and subsequently propose an adaptive implementation that is robust against parameter uncertainties.
keywords: {Wind turbines;Rotors;Torque;Generators;Mathematical model;Adaptive control;convex optimization;robust control;smart power applications;wind turbine control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6335474&isnumber=6472101


M. Sechilariu, B. Wang and F. Locment, "Building Integrated Photovoltaic System With Energy Storage and Smart Grid Communication," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 4, pp. 1607-1618, April 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2222852.
Abstract: The utility grid challenge is to meet the current growing energy demand. One solution to this problem is to expand the role of microgrids that interact with the utility grid and operate independently in case of a limited availability during peak time or outage. This paper proposes, for urban areas, a building integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) primarily for self-feeding of buildings equipped with PV array and storage. With an aim of elimination of multiple energy conversions, a DC network distribution is considered. The BIPV can supply a tertiary building at the same time as PV array may produce power through a hierarchical supervision able to exchange messages with the smart grid and metadata. The hierarchical control is designed as an interface to expand the system ability for advanced energy management control having regard to the grid availability and user's commands. It consists of four layers: human-machine interface, prediction, cost management, and operation. The operation layer, implemented in an experimental platform, takes into account the grid supply power limits and constrains the DC load. The experimental results validate the approach that may be a solution for the future smart grid communication between BIPV and utility grid.
keywords: {Smart grids;Energy management;Buildings;System-on-a-chip;Arrays;Load modeling;Battery;building integrated photovoltaic;distributed power generation;energy management;energy storage;hierarchical control;Petri nets;photovoltaic power system;power converters;power grid;power system control;smart grid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6323020&isnumber=6361304


C. Xia, Z. Wang, T. Shi and X. He, "An Improved Control Strategy of Triple Line-Voltage Cascaded Voltage Source Converter Based on Proportional–Resonant Controller," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 7, pp. 2894-2908, July 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2222854.
Abstract: In this paper, the operation principle of a multiple converter, which is composed of the traditional two-level six-switch voltage source converter and constructed in line-voltage cascaded mode, is analyzed. The equivalent switching circuit model of the multiple converter is built based on its operation characteristic. By analyzing the feature of the multiple converter control, an improved voltage-current double-loop control strategy based on the proportional-resonant (PR) controller is proposed. The control strategy, which has the merit of the integrated control, can also realize the independent control of the transmission power of each unit of the multiple converter by adding the voltage-sharing compensation control. Meanwhile, a PR controller is adopted in the current loop. By giving a suitable current reference value for the controller, the problem of ac-side line-current asymmetry can be solved, and the effect of unbalanced grid voltages on the system can be avoided as well. The availability of the proposed control strategy is verified by the experimental results.
keywords: {Voltage control;Power conversion;Control systems;Vectors;Space vector pulse width modulation;Generators;Integrated control;line-voltage cascaded voltage source converter (VSC) (LVC-VSC);multiple converter;renewable energy generation;unbalanced grid voltages},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6323021&isnumber=6472101


P. Shamsi and B. Fahimi, "Dynamic Behavior of Multiport Power Electronic Interface Under Source/Load Disturbances," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 10, pp. 4500-4511, Oct. 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2210376.
Abstract: This paper presents the dynamic behavior of multiport power electronic interface (MPEI) under load/source disturbances. A cascaded topology for MPEI is considered. This system is capable of power management for local generations, loads, and storage systems. Large-signal and small-signal models for MPEI are developed. These models are combined with corresponding control algorithms. Simulated and experimental transient responses to disturbances on each port are presented. The behavior of MPEI in response to each disturbance is analyzed. Simulation and experimental results are compared in order to verify the model.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Batteries;Inverters;Mathematical model;Voltage control;Power system dynamics;Distributed power generation;grid-tied converter;microgrids;multiport power electronic interface (MPEI);phase-locked loop (PLL);power sharing;stability},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6266735&isnumber=6516975


H. Geng, J. Sun, S. Xiao and G. Yang, "Modeling and Implementation of an All Digital Phase-Locked-Loop for Grid-Voltage Phase Detection," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 772-780, May 2013, doi: 10.1109/TII.2012.2209666.
Abstract: In this paper, a novel all digital phase-locked-loop (ADPLL) is proposed for the phase detection of power grid voltage. The proposed ADPLL features wide track-in range and fast pull-in time, and it can be easily integrated into the digital controller with low cost. The nonlinear model of such digital system is derived from the operation principle of the ADPLL and the linearized model is then obtained to evaluate the steady and dynamic performance due to the nonlinear and discrete property. Compared with the conventional DPLL, the proposed ADPLL has almost no steady state phase error when the frequency of the input signal deviates from the center frequency. Moreover, the tracking speed is highly improved. In contrast with other ADPLLs, the proposed one employs the loop filter with proportional-Integral (PI) structure, which can help to eliminate the steady state error excited by high-order disturbances or noise. As a result, a low system clock or sampling frequency is enough to get a satisfactory performance, which is an attractive advantage for the low cost applications. Simulation and experimental results verify the analysis and the effectiveness of the ADPLL.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Radiation detectors;Steady-state;Voltage-controlled oscillators;Clocks;Stability analysis;Noise;All digital phase-locked-loop (ADPLL);digital system modeling;phase detection},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6246693&isnumber=6409420


S. Xiao, G. Yang, H. Zhou and H. Geng, "An LVRT Control Strategy Based on Flux Linkage Tracking for DFIG-Based WECS," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 7, pp. 2820-2832, July 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2205354.
Abstract: For doubly fed induction generator (DFIG)-based wind energy conversion systems (WECSs), large electromotive force will be induced in the rotor circuit during grid faults. Without proper protection scheme, the rotor side of DFIG will suffer from overcurrents, which may even destroy the rotor-side converter (RSC). To mitigate this problem, a new flux-linkage-tracking-based low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) control strategy is proposed to suppress the short-circuit rotor current. Under the proposed control strategy, the rotor flux linkage is controlled to track a reduced fraction of the changing stator flux linkage by switching the control algorithm of RSC during grid faults. To validate the proposed control strategy, a case study of a typical 1.5-MW DFIG-based WECS is carried out by simulation using the full-order model in SIMULINK/SimPowerSystems. In the case study, a comparison with a typical LVRT method based on RSC control is given, and the effect of the control parameter on the control performance is also investigated. Finally, the validity of the proposed method is further verified by means of laboratory experiments with a scaled-size DFIG system.
keywords: {Rotors;Couplings;Stators;Circuit faults;Voltage control;Mathematical model;Voltage fluctuations;Doubly fed induction generator (DFIG);flux linkage tracking;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT);rotor-side converter (RSC)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6237523&isnumber=6472101


S. B. Naderi, M. Jafari and M. Tarafdar Hagh, "Parallel-Resonance-Type Fault Current Limiter," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 7, pp. 2538-2546, July 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2196899.
Abstract: This paper proposes a new parallel-$LC$-resonance-type fault current limiter (FCL) that uses a resistor in series with a capacitor. The proposed FCL is capable of limiting the fault current magnitude near to the prefault magnitude of distribution feeder current by placing the mentioned resistor in the structure of the FCL. In this way, the voltage of the point of common coupling does not experience considerable sag during the fault. In addition, the proposed FCL does not use a superconducting inductor which has high construction cost. Analytical analysis for this structure is presented in detail, and simulation results using power system computer-aided design/electromagnetic transients, including dc software are obtained to validate the effectiveness of this structure. Also, an experimental setup is provided to show the accuracy of the analytic analyses and simulation results.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Fault currents;Impedance;Inductors;RLC circuits;Bridge circuits;Semiconductor diodes;Fault current limiter (FCL);parallel resonance;resistor},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6192321&isnumber=6472101


G. G. Pozzebon, A. F. Q. Goncalves, G. G. Pena, N. E. M. Mocambique and R. Q. Machado, "Operation of a Three-Phase Power Converter Connected to a Distribution System," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 5, pp. 1810-1818, May 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2191751.
Abstract: This paper presents the operation of a distributed generation (DG) system driven by a dc-dc step-up converter and a dc-ac voltage source inverter (VSI) interfaced with the power grid. To create a stable mode when different kinds of loads are connected locally or when working under contingency, the step-up converter must regulate the dc link voltage, allowing the VSI to stabilize its terminal voltage. The power flow between the grid and the DG is controlled by applying a power/voltage method that regulates the amplitude and the displacement of the grid voltage synthesized by the DG, while a phase-locked loop algorithm is used to synchronize the grid and DG. Additionally, a set of simulations are performed independent of the load type or its work regime (whether it is connected to the grid). The effectiveness of the proposed method is evaluated by experimental results.
keywords: {Voltage control;Phase locked loops;Synchronization;Load flow;Transient analysis;Renewable energy resources;Transfer functions;Distributed generation (DG);islanding modes;power converters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6172669&isnumber=6423965


R. Razzaghi, M. Davarpanah and M. Sanaye-Pasand, "A Novel Protective Scheme to Protect Small-Scale Synchronous Generators Against Transient Instability," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 4, pp. 1659-1667, April 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2186773.
Abstract: Installation of small generators in distribution networks has been increased recently due to its various benefits. One of the important issues related to these distributed generators is the effect of system faults on their transient stability. Due to the low inertia constant of the small-scale generators and the slow operation of the distribution networks' protective relays, transient instability is quite probable for these generators. In this paper, the dynamic behavior of small-scale synchronous generators to the system faults and its sensitivity to the system parameters are investigated. Then, a practical protective method using the existing overcurrent and undervoltage relays is proposed, and its advantages and disadvantages are pointed out. Next, based on the obtained information from sensitivity analysis, a novel protective relay is proposed to protect the generators against instability. The proposed relay uses a generator active power to determine the appropriate time to disconnect the generator. Simulation results confirm the secure operation and robustness of the proposed relay against system transients. In addition, the proposed algorithm complies with the generator fault-ride-through requirements.
keywords: {Generators;Circuit faults;Relays;Transient analysis;Stability criteria;Power system stability;Circuit stability;Distributed generation (DG) protection system;distributed generation;fault ride through (FRT);transient stability},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6145651&isnumber=6361304


M. Savaghebi, A. Jalilian, J. C. Vasquez and J. M. Guerrero, "Autonomous Voltage Unbalance Compensation in an Islanded Droop-Controlled Microgrid," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 4, pp. 1390-1402, April 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2185914.
Abstract: Recently, there has been an increasing interest in using distributed generators (DGs) not only to inject power into the grid but also to enhance the power quality. In this paper, a stationary-frame control method for voltage unbalance compensation in an islanded microgrid is proposed. This method is based on the proper control of DGs interface converters. The DGs are properly controlled to autonomously compensate for voltage unbalance while sharing the compensation effort and also active and reactive powers. The control system of the DGs mainly consists of active and reactive power droop controllers, a virtual impedance loop, voltage and current controllers, and an unbalance compensator. The design approach of the control system is discussed in detail, and simulation and experimental results are presented. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in the compensation of voltage unbalance.
keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Impedance;Inverters;Control systems;Equations;Mathematical model;Distributed generators (DGs);microgrid;voltage unbalance compensation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6140564&isnumber=6361304


A. Camacho, M. Castilla, J. Miret, J. C. Vasquez and E. Alarcon-Gallo, "Flexible Voltage Support Control for Three-Phase Distributed Generation Inverters Under Grid Fault," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 4, pp. 1429-1441, April 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2012.2185016.
Abstract: Ancillary services for distributed generation (DG) systems become a challenging issue to smartly integrate renewable-energy sources into the grid. Voltage control is one of these ancillary services which can ride through and support the voltage under grid faults. Grid codes from the transmission system operators describe the behavior of the energy source, regulating voltage limits and reactive power injection to remain connected and support the grid under fault. On the basis that different kinds of voltage sags require different voltage support strategies, a flexible control scheme for three-phase grid-connected inverters is proposed. In three-phase balanced voltage sags, the inverter should inject reactive power in order to raise the voltage in all phases. In one- or two-phase faults, the main concern of the DG inverter is to equalize voltages by reducing the negative symmetric sequence and clear the phase jump. Due to system limitations, a balance between these two extreme policies is mandatory. Thus, over- and undervoltage can be avoided, and the proposed control scheme prevents disconnection while achieving the desired voltage support service. The main contribution of this work is the introduction of a control algorithm for reference current generation that provides flexible voltage support under grid faults. Two different voltage sags have been experimentally tested to illustrate the behavior of the proposed voltage support control scheme.
keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Voltage control;Inverters;Power quality;Reactive power;Voltage measurement;Generators;Reactive power control;voltage ride through;voltage sag;voltage support},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6134653&isnumber=6361304


M. Castilla, J. Miret, A. Camacho, J. Matas and L. G. de Vicuna, "Reduction of Current Harmonic Distortion in Three-Phase Grid-Connected Photovoltaic Inverters via Resonant Current Control," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 60, no. 4, pp. 1464-1472, April 2013, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2011.2167734.
Abstract: The resonant current control has been extensively employed to reduce the current harmonic distortion in a wide range of grid-connected distributed generation applications, including photovoltaic (PV) inverters, wind and water turbines, and fuel-cell inverters. However, the performance of these systems is deteriorated when the utility grid voltage experiences abnormal conditions such as voltage harmonics and imbalances. Several advanced control solutions have been recently introduced to cope with this problem but at the cost of a significant increase in the control computational load. This paper first analyzes the limitations of the standard resonant current control operating under abnormal grid conditions and then introduces a control scheme that improves the current harmonic distortion in such adverse conditions without increasing the computational load of the standard current control. This theoretical contribution is validated by means of selected experimental results from a three-phase PV inverter.
keywords: {Inverters;Current control;Transfer functions;Harmonic analysis;Harmonic distortion;Resonant frequency;Power harmonic filters;Distributed generation (DG);photovoltaic (PV);power quality;three-phase inverter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6017111&isnumber=6361304


M. Essaaidi and M. El Brak, "Wireless sensor network in home automation network and smart grid," 2012 IEEE International Conference on Complex Systems (ICCS), Agadir, Morocco, 2012, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ICoCS.2012.6458515.Abstract: The collaborative and low-cost nature of wireless sensor networks (WSNs) brings significant advantages over traditional communication technologies used in today's electric power systems. Recently, WSNs have been widely recognized as a promising technology that can enhance various aspects of today's electric power systems, including generation, delivery, and utilization, making them a vital component of the next-generation electric power system, the smart grid. However, harsh and complex electric-power-system environments pose great challenges in the reliability of WSN communications in smart grid applications. This paper starts with an overview of the application of WSNs for electric power systems along with their opportunities and challenges and opens up future work in many unexploited research areas in diverse smart-grid applications. keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Smart grids;Monitoring;Wireless communication;Zigbee;Network topology;Smart Grid;renewable energy;Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6458515&isnumber=6458502

Y. Zhang, X. Li, S. Zhang and Y. Zhen, "Wireless sensor network in smart grid: Applications and issue," 2012 World Congress on Information and Communication Technologies, Trivandrum, India, 2012, pp. 1204-1208, doi: 10.1109/WICT.2012.6409258.Abstract: Smart Grid requires lots of applications in the terminals to sense the environment or control the intelligent devices. Due to the low cost and high function, wireless sensors have been deployed in power grid wildly. Depending on wireless sensor network (WSN), the grid can build a two-way communication system, and then customers can interact extensively with the network, both in providing power consumption data and even feeding back domestically produced energy into the grid. This paper starts with an overview of various applications of wireless sensor network in smart grid and then discusses exiting issues. Wireless sensor network can sense and monitor the transmission line, substation, home etc. however, the issues of security, reliability, standardization etc should be address. keywords: {Decision support systems;Communications technology;Wireless sensor network;smart grid;application;issue},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6409258&isnumber=6409038

J. Milewski, Ł. Szabłowski and J. Kuta, "Optimal control strategy of NG piston engine as a DG unit obtained by an utilization of Artificial Neural Network," 2012 Power Engineering and Automation Conference, Wuhan, China, 2012, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/PEAM.2012.6612550.Abstract: The paper presents a control strategy concept of a piston engine fueled by Natural Gas as a DG unit obtained by using an Artificial Neural Network. The control strategy is based on several factors and directs the operation of the unit in the context of changes occurring in the market, while taking into account the operating characteristics of the unit. The control strategy is defined by an objective function: for example, work at maximum profit, maximum service life, etc. The results of simulations of the piston engine as a DG unit at chosen loads are presented. Daily changes in the prices of fuel and electricity are factored into the simulations. keywords: {Artificial neural networks;Electricity;Engines;Neurons;Load modeling;Data models;Training;Artificial Neural Network;distributed generation piston engine},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6612550&isnumber=6612411

A. Luna, J. Rocabert, I. Candela, P. Rodriguez, R. Teodorescu and F. Blaabjerg, "Advanced structures for grid synchronization of power converters in distributed generation applications," 2012 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Raleigh, NC, USA, 2012, pp. 2769-2776, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2012.6342381.Abstract: The Transmission System Operators are specially concerned about the Low Voltage Ride Through requirements of distributed generation power plants. Solutions based on the installation of STATCOMs and DVRs, as well as on advanced control functionalities for the existing power converters have contributed to enhance their response under faulty and distorted scenarios, and hence to fulfill these requirements. In order to achieve satisfactory results it is necessary to count on accurate and fast grid voltage synchronization algorithms, which are able to work under unbalanced and distorted conditions. This paper analyzes and compares the synchronization capability of three advanced synchronization systems: the Decoupled Double Synchronous Reference Frame-Phase-Locked Loop, the Dual Second Order Generalized Integgrator- Phase-Locked Loop and the Three-Phase Enhanced Phase-Locked Loop, designed to work under such conditions. Its response will be analyzed with respect the synchronization needs that can be extracted from the standards. keywords: {Phase locked loops;Synchronization;Voltage fluctuations;Vectors;Wind power generation;Power quality;Reactive power;Frequency estimation;Synchronization;Frequency locked loops;Harmonic analysis;Monitoring;Electrical Engineering;Electric variables measurements},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6342381&isnumber=6342155

K. Ma, F. Blaabjerg and M. Liserre, "Operation and thermal loading of three-level Neutral-Point-Clamped wind power converter under various grid faults," 2012 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Raleigh, NC, USA, 2012, pp. 2410-2418, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2012.6342408.Abstract: In order to fulfill the continuous growing grid-side demands, the full-scale power converters are becoming more and more popular in the wind power application. Nevertheless, the more severe loading of the power semiconductor devices in the full-scale power converters, especially during Low Voltage Ride Through (LVRT) operation under grid faults, may compromise the reliability of the system and consequently further increase its cost. In this paper, the impact of various grid faults on a three-level Neutral-Point-Clamped (3L-NPC) grid-converter in terms of thermal loading of power semiconductor devices is highlighted. It has been found that the thermal loading of the phases of the power converter may be uneven and dependent on the different types and severities of grid voltage dips as well as on the chosen control algorithms. keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Loading;Wind power generation;Power grids;Circuit faults;Wind turbines;Reactive power;Wind power generation;Multilevel converter;LVRT;Grid fault;Thermal loading},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6342408&isnumber=6342155

Y. -S. Wu, C. -H. Chang, Y. -M. Chen, C. -S. Cheng, C. -W. Liu and Y. -R. Chang, "The current control of PV inverter for low voltage ride through," 2012 15th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (EPE/PEMC), Novi Sad, Serbia, 2012, pp. LS1d.4-1-LS1d.4-6, doi: 10.1109/EPEPEMC.2012.6397396.Abstract: The objective of this paper is to propose a maximum current amplitude control (MCAC) for the Photovoltaic (PV) power system with the low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) behaviour. The proposed MCAC strategy can generate the demanded active and reactive power depending on the output power condition of the PV array and the power rating of the grid-tied inverter. It can be adapted to meet different LVRT grid codes, easily. In this paper, the analytical derivation of the proposed MCAC for the PV power system will be introduced in detail. Computer simulations are shown to verify the performance of the proposed MCAC. keywords: {Inverters;Voltage fluctuations;Arrays;Reactive power;Power system stability;Power generation;Voltage control;Photovoltaic (PV) power system;low-voltage ride-through (LVRT);maximum current amplitude control (MCAC);single-phase grid-connected inverter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6397396&isnumber=6397190

M. A. Zamani, A. Yazdani and T. S. Sidhu, "A Control Strategy for Enhanced Operation of Inverter-Based Microgrids Under Transient Disturbances and Network Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 27, no. 4, pp. 1737-1747, Oct. 2012, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2012.2205713.
Abstract: This paper proposes an enhanced control strategy for electronically coupled distributed energy resources that improves the performance of the host microgrid under network faults and transient disturbances. The proposed control strategy does not require controller mode switchings and enables the electronically coupled distributed energy resources to ride through network faults, irrespective of whether they take place within the host microgrid or impact the upstream grid. Moreover, the proposed control ensures acceptable power quality for the duration of the faults, which is an important feature for protection against certain classes of faults, as well as for sensitive loads. Further, the paper proposes a supplementary control loop that improves the microgrid post-fault recovery. The effectiveness of the proposed control strategy is demonstrated through a comprehensive set of simulation studies, conducted in the PSCAD/EMTDC software environment.
keywords: {Voltage control;Frequency control;Transient analysis;Phase locked loops;Power conversion;Voltage control;Fault location;Microgrids;Electronically coupled distributed energy resources;fault;frequency regulation;islanded mode of operation;microgrid;power electronics;power sharing;reclosing;voltage regulation;voltage-sourced converter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6290427&isnumber=6301804


H. Ahuja, G. Bhuvaneswari and R. Balasubramanian, "Ride through of grid faults for PMSG based wind energy conversion systems," 2012 IEEE 7th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems (ICIIS), Chennai, India, 2012, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ICIInfS.2012.6304809.Abstract: Permanent magnet Synchronous Generators (PMSG) are becoming popular for wind energy conversion systems (WECS) nowadays due to the possibility of gearless operation even in grid connected mode. However, these systems have serious problems during fault conditions such as over speeding of the generator speed and undue increase in the DC link capacitor voltage. This paper proposes a complete coordinated control of the generator and the power electronic converters to achieve fault-ride-through (FRT) capability. The analysis and simulation of a PMSG based WECS is presented here for normal working conditions as well as for fault conditions. The uniqueness of the model includes de-loading of the generator via machine side converter, active and reactive power control through grid side converter to support voltage control during fault. The simulation results prove the capability of the system to harness maximum power during normal conditions and to achieve FRT during a severe three-phase fault. keywords: {Generators;Reactive power;Voltage control;Wind turbines;Stators;Power conversion;Wind speed;Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS);Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generator (PMSG);Fault Ride Through (FRT);fully rated converter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6304809&isnumber=6304761

Ö. Göksu, R. Teodorescu, B. Bak-Jensen, F. Iov and P. C. Kjær, "An iterative approach for symmetrical and asymmetrical Short-circuit calculations with converter-based connected renewable energy sources. Application to wind power," 2012 IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting, San Diego, CA, USA, 2012, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/PESGM.2012.6344906.Abstract: As more renewable energy sources, especially more wind turbines are installed in the power system, analysis of the power system with the renewable energy sources becomes more important. Short-circuit calculation is a well known fault analysis method which is widely used for early stage analysis and design purposes and tuning of the network protection equipments. However, due to current controlled power converter-based grid connection of the wind turbines, short-circuit calculation cannot be performed with its current form for networks with power converter-based wind turbines. In this paper, an iterative approach for short-circuit calculation of networks with power converter-based wind turbines is developed for both symmetrical and asymmetrical short-circuit grid faults. As a contribution to existing solutions, negative sequence current injection from the wind turbines is also taken into account in calculations in case of asymmetrical faults. The developed iterative short-circuit calculation method is verified with time domain simulations. keywords: {Circuit faults;Wind turbines;Iterative methods;Power system stability;Impedance;Power system transients;Power system faults;Wind energy;Wind power generation;Power system analysis computing;Converters;Current control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6344906&isnumber=6343905

S. Dahal, N. Mithulananthan and T. K. Saha, "Enhancing small signal stability of an emerging distribution system by a coordinated controller," 2012 IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting, San Diego, CA, USA, 2012, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/PESGM.2012.6344784.Abstract: The structures of distribution systems are changing due to increasing penetration of distributed generations (DG units) as well as integration of advanced controllers and communication infrastructures. As a result, emerging distribution networks have a number of generators and controllers operating in a closer proximity. Such a proximity of dynamic devices results into modal interactions, which can deteriorate small signal stability of distribution systems. In such a case, a controller must be installed to ensure stability under different operating conditions. This paper presents a robust coordinated damping controller for distribution networks. The controller receives wide area control signal from network and sends supplementary control signals to the DG units. The advantage of the controller is that it can support small signal stability even if some DG units are out of operation. The effectiveness of the controller is tested in a 43-bus industrial distribution network. keywords: {Damping;Power system stability;Generators;Rotors;Stability criteria;Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions;Damping controller;distributed generation;eigenvalue analysis;robust controller;small signal stability},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6344784&isnumber=6343905

M. Savaghebi, A. Jalilian, J. C. Vasquez and J. M. Guerrero, "Secondary Control for Voltage Quality Enhancement in Microgrids," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 1893-1902, Dec. 2012, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2012.2205281.
Abstract: In this paper, a hierarchical control scheme is proposed for enhancement of sensitive load bus (SLB) voltage quality in microgrids. The control structure consists of primary and secondary levels. The primary control level comprises distributed generators (DGs) local controllers. Each of these controllers includes a selective virtual impedance loop which is considered to improve sharing of fundamental and harmonic components of load current among the DG units. The sharing improvement is provided at the expense of increasing voltage unbalance and harmonic distortion. Thus, the secondary control level is applied to manage the compensation of SLB voltage unbalance and harmonics by sending proper control signals to the primary level. DGs compensation efforts are controlled locally at the primary level. The system design procedure for selecting proper control parameters is discussed. Simulation results are provided in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Impedance;Voltage measurement;Harmonic distortion;Power system harmonics;Control systems;Distributed generator (DG);microgrid;voltage harmonics;voltage unbalance},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6230624&isnumber=6397636


T. Wijnhoven, J. Tant and G. Deconinck, "Inverter modelling techniques for protection studies," 2012 3rd IEEE International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Aalborg, Denmark, 2012, pp. 187-194, doi: 10.1109/PEDG.2012.6253999.Abstract: Traditional fault calculation techniques are not capable of accurately modelling the short-circuit behaviour of inverter interfaced distributed generation (IIDG). As the share of IIDG continues to rise, more accurate fault simulations are required. This paper gives an overview of fault calculation techniques described in literature. All techniques are evaluated from the viewpoint of protection studies in medium and low voltage grids with a high share of IIDG. The averaged value modelling technique is selected. The merits of this technique are illustrated in a Simulink/PLECS simulation environment, where averaged value models are compared to full time-domain switched models in terms of simulation time and accuracy. keywords: {Inverters;Switches;Phase locked loops;Computational modeling;Circuit faults;Distributed power generation;power system protection;distributed power generation;inverter;simulation;dynamic-average value modelling},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6253999&isnumber=6253967

M. Savaghebi, J. C. Vasquez, A. Jalilian and J. M. Guerrero, "Secondary control for compensation of voltage harmonics and unbalance in microgrids," 2012 3rd IEEE International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Aalborg, Denmark, 2012, pp. 46-53, doi: 10.1109/PEDG.2012.6253978.Abstract: In this paper, a hierarchical control scheme is proposed for enhancement of Sensitive Load Bus (SLB) voltage quality in microgrids. The control structure consists of primary and secondary levels. The primary control level comprises Distributed Generators (DGs) local controllers. Each of these controllers includes a selective virtual impedance loop which is considered to improve sharing of fundamental and harmonic components of load current among the DG units. The sharing improvement is provided at the expense of increasing voltage unbalance and harmonic distortion. Thus, the secondary control level is applied to manage the compensation of SLB voltage unbalance and harmonics by sending proper control signals to the primary level. DGs compensation efforts are controlled locally at the primary level. The system design procedure for selecting proper control parameters is discussed. Simulation results are provided in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Impedance;Harmonic distortion;Power harmonic filters;Voltage measurement;Distributed Generator (DG);microgrid;voltage harmonics;voltage unbalance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6253978&isnumber=6253967

Zheng Wang, Shouting Fan, Zhixiang Zou, Yang Zheng and Ming Cheng, "Operation of interleaved voltage-source-converter fed wind energy systems with asymmetrical faults in grid," Proceedings of The 7th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference, Harbin, 2012, pp. 2262-2266, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC.2012.6259199.Abstract: This paper proposes and designs the control schemes for the voltage-source-converter (VSC) fed wind energy system with asymmetrical grid faults in the wind farm, where several VSC wind turbines are paralleled with the common AC bus. The key is to design the interleaved PWM strategy for the VSC of different wind turbines to reduce the switching harmonic in the total grid current, apply the flexible positive- and negative-sequence control (FPNSC) to generate the grid current references, and adopt the double synchronous reference frame current controller (DSRFC) to track both the positive- and the negative-sequence current references. To estimate the phase angle and frequency of voltage at the point of common point, the dual second order generalized integrator frequency-locked loop (DSOGI-FLL) has been implemented, which has been verified to offer smoother and better transient performance compared to conventional phase-locked loops. The simulation on a low-voltage wind park including four VSC fed wind turbines verify the performance of the proposed operating schemes under asymmetrical faulty conditions. keywords: {Power conversion;Wind energy;Pulse width modulation;Voltage control;Harmonic analysis;Wind turbines;wind energy systems;asymmetrical grid faults;interleaved VSC;DDSRF;FLL},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6259199&isnumber=6259051

Zheng Zeng, Huan Yang, Rongxiang Zhao and Zhiyong Zeng, "Study on the over-voltage and over-current of grid-connected inverters in non-fault conditions," 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Hangzhou, 2012, pp. 1080-1085, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2012.6237238.Abstract: Over-voltage and over-current of grid-connected inverters not only affect their grid-connected or isolated operation modes directly, but also relate to the safety of their components. Over-voltage and over-current of grid-connected inverters in non-fault conditions are investigated in this paper. The over-voltage on dc-link and the filter capacitor as well the over-current caused by inrush current of isolation transformer are studied in detail. Simultaneously, their physical mechanisms and mathematical models are established. Furthermore, some response strategies are presented to overcome these over-voltage and over-current processes. At last, based on a typical grid-connected inverter topology, some simulation results are achieved using PSIM and PSCAD/EMTDC. In addition, a prototype is set up and some experimental outcomes are presented. The simulation results and experimental tests have verified the validity and effectiveness of the proposed models and methods. keywords: {Inverters;Capacitors;Switches;Surges;Resistance;Damping;Inductance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6237238&isnumber=6237048

J. Matas, M. Castilla, L. G. de Vicuña, J. Miret, E. Alarcón-Gallo and A. Camacho, "Fast grid synchronization technique based on a multiple cascaded general integrator scheme for distributed generation inverters," 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Hangzhou, China, 2012, pp. 1003-1010, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2012.6237226.Abstract: This paper proposes a new structure for grid synchronization based on generalized integrators (GI) that lead to fast detection of positive and negative components of the grid voltage. The GI are used as a band pass filter (GI-BPF) mainly to provide in-phase and quadrature components of grid voltage. The proposed structure consists in the cascaded connection of multiple GI-BPF to achieve a faster time response than a single GI-BPF but with the same bandwidth characteristics. This structure is used with a frequency locked loop and a positive sequence detector to operate under unbalanced voltage sags. Simulations and experimental results of a photovoltaic power system injecting power to the grid in the stationary reference frame are shown to validate this proposal. Comparisons between this proposal and one that uses a single GI-BPF in the sequence detector are provided. The results show that the proposed cascaded GI-BPF achieves a considerably time response reduction in the sequence grid detection under a fault with the same quality-filter characteristics. keywords: {Frequency locked loops;Time factors;Band pass filters;Voltage fluctuations;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Inverters;Distributed generation;generalized integrators;grid sequence detection;voltage sags;power quality},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6237226&isnumber=6237048

S. K. Chaudhary, R. Teodorescu, P. Rodriguez, P. C. Kjaer and A. M. Gole, "Negative Sequence Current Control in Wind Power Plants With VSC-HVDC Connection," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 535-544, July 2012, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2012.2191581.
Abstract: Large offshore wind power plants may have multi-MW wind turbine generators (WTG) equipped with full-scale converters (FSC) and voltage source converter (VSC) based high voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission for grid connection. The power electronic converters in the WTG-FSC and the VSC-HVDC allow fast current control in the offshore grid. This paper presents a method of controlling the negative sequence current injection into the offshore grid from the VSC-HVDC as well as WTG-FSCs. This would minimize the power oscillations and hence reduce the dc voltage overshoots in the VSC-HVDC system as well as in the WTG-FSCs; especially when the offshore grid is unbalanced due to asymmetric faults. The formulation for negative sequence current injection is mathematically derived and then implemented in electromagnetic transients (EMT) simulation model. The simulated results show that the negative sequence current control mitigates the power oscillations and therefore limits the dc voltage excursions in the VSC-HVDC system during the asymmetric faults.
keywords: {Power conversion;Voltage control;Current control;Wind power generation;Reactive power;HVDC transmission;Full-scale converter;high voltage direct-current (HVDC);second-order generalized integrator (SOGI);sequence components;voltage source converter (VSC);wind power plant;wind turbine generator},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6193197&isnumber=6218808


G. P. Hancke and G. P. Hancke, "Industrial wireless sensor networks: A selection of challenging applications," 2012 6th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP), Prague, Czech Republic, 2012, pp. 64-68, doi: 10.1109/EuCAP.2012.6206686.Abstract: Industrial wireless sensor networks (IWSNs) have the potential to offer several competitive advantages over traditional wired industrial monitoring and control systems, such as self organization, rapid deployment, maintenance, troubleshooting, flexibility and aggregated intelligence via parallel processing. Cable and connector failures, one of the most common reliability risks in harsh environments where chemicals, vibration, or moving parts can damage cables and connectors, are significantly reduced. There is a growing demand to improve process efficiencies, comply with environmental regulations and meet corporate financial objectives. IWSNs could impact significantly on achieving these goals by creating a highly reliable and self healing system that rapidly responds to real-time events with appropriate actions through utilizing intelligent and low cost devices. The implementation of IWSNs and challenges involved are very application specific. This paper will only consider the smart grid and underground application domains. Challenges, outstanding research issues and potential solutions within these domains will be discussed. keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Wireless communication;Monitoring;Smart grids;Communication system security;Reliability;Fuel processing industries;Industrial wireless sensor networks;applications;underground;Smart Grid},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6206686&isnumber=6205804

K. V. Bhadane, M. S. Ballal and R. M. Moharil, "Investigation for Causes of Poor Power Quality in Grid Connected Wind Energy - A Review," 2012 Asia-Pacific Power and Energy Engineering Conference, Shanghai, China, 2012, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/APPEEC.2012.6307152.Abstract: This topic represents a technical review of Power Quality problems associated with the Renewable based wind energy system and the investigation of causes of poor power quality issues related with grid connected wind farm. Renewable Energy Source (RES) integrated at distribution level is termed as Distributed Generation(DG).The utility is concerned due to the high penetration level of wind energy in distribution systems, as it may pose a threat to network is terms of Power Quality(PQ) issues , voltage regulation and stability. Therefore the DG systems are required to comply with strict technical and regularity frameworks to ensure safe, reliable and efficient operation of overall network. Wind energy system integration issues and associated PQ problems are discussed. Integrating renewable into grids to any considerable degree can expose the system to issues that need attention lest the functionality of the grid be impaired. such issues can be voltage function, frequency deviation of power Quality. keywords: {Power quality;Power system stability;Harmonic analysis;Wind turbines;Wind farms;Reactive power;Induction generators},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6307152&isnumber=6306868

M. El Brak and M. Essaaidi, "Wireless sensor network in smart grid technology: Challenges and opportunities," 2012 6th International Conference on Sciences of Electronics, Technologies of Information and Telecommunications (SETIT), Sousse, Tunisia, 2012, pp. 578-583, doi: 10.1109/SETIT.2012.6481976.Abstract: The collaborative and low-cost nature of wireless sensor networks (WSNs) brings significant advantages over traditional communication technologies used in today's electric power systems. Recently, WSNs have been widely recognized as a promising technology that can enhance various aspects of today's electric power systems, including generation, delivery, and utilization, making them a vital component of the next-generation electric power system, the smart grid. However, harsh and complex electric- power-system environments pose great challenges in the reliability of WSN communications in smart grid applications. This paper starts with an overview of the application of WSNs for electric power systems along with their opportunities and challenges and opens up future work in many unexploited research areas in diverse smart-grid applications. keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Smart grids;Monitoring;Wireless communication;Zigbee;Network topology;Smart Grid;renewable energy;Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6481976&isnumber=6481878

J. Miret, M. Castilla, A. Camacho, L. G. d. Vicuña and J. Matas, "Control Scheme for Photovoltaic Three-Phase Inverters to Minimize Peak Currents During Unbalanced Grid-Voltage Sags," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 27, no. 10, pp. 4262-4271, Oct. 2012, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2012.2191306.
Abstract: Nowadays, the majority of the photovoltaic (PV) power sources are connected to the public grid. One of the main connection problems occurs when voltage sags appear in the grid due to short circuits, lightning, etc. International standards regulate the grid connection of PV systems, forcing the source to remain connected during short-time grid-voltage faults. As a consequence, during the voltage sag, the source should operate with increasing converter currents to maintain the injection of the generated power. This abnormal operation may result in nondesired system disconnections due to overcurrents. This paper proposes a controller for a PV three-phase inverter that ensures minimum peak values in the grid-injected currents, as compared with conventional controllers. From the system analysis, a design method is presented in order to set the parameters of the control scheme. Selected experimental results are reported in order to validate the effectiveness of the proposed control.
keywords: {Voltage fluctuations;Inverters;Voltage control;Power quality;Photovoltaic systems;Vectors;Standards;Fault ride-through;grid international standards;photovoltaic (PV) power source;voltage sag},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6171862&isnumber=6209412


J. A. Suul, A. Luna, P. Rodríguez and T. Undeland, "Virtual-Flux-Based Voltage-Sensor-Less Power Control for Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 27, no. 9, pp. 4071-4087, Sept. 2012, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2012.2190301.
Abstract: This paper presents a virtual flux-based method for voltage-sensor-less power control of voltage source converters under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. The voltage-sensor-less grid synchronization is achieved by a method for virtual flux estimation with inherent sequence separation in the stationary reference frame. The estimated positive and negative sequence (PNS) virtual flux components are used as basis for calculating current references corresponding to the following objectives for control of active and reactive powers under unbalanced conditions: 1) balanced positive sequence currents, 2) elimination of double-frequency active power oscillations, and 3) elimination of double-frequency reactive power oscillations. For simple implementation and flexible operation, the derived current references are synthesized into one generalized equation where the control objectives can be selected by real coefficients. Since the converter has a limited current capability, a simple, generalized, method for current limitation is also presented with the purpose of maintaining the intended power flow characteristics during unbalanced grid faults. The proposed strategies for virtual flux-based voltage-sensor-less operation have been investigated by simulations and laboratory experiments, verifying the expected performance of active and reactive power control with different objectives.
keywords: {Estimation;Voltage control;Reactive power;Voltage measurement;Power conversion;Synchronization;Control of active and reactive powers;three-phase voltage source converters;unbalanced grid voltage;virtual flux;voltage-sensor-less control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6166380&isnumber=6200448


M. E. Zarei, B. Asaei and A. R. Namadmalan, "A modified vectorial current reference calculation for flexible distributed generations," 2012 3rd Power Electronics and Drive Systems Technology (PEDSTC), Tehran, Iran, 2012, pp. 145-149, doi: 10.1109/PEDSTC.2012.6183314.Abstract: This paper proposes a modified calculation for flexible distributed generation (FDG) based on Shunt Active Filter (SAF). Active filters have been considered as an effective solution to overcome the power quality problem of distribution networks. A new vector based formulation is used to calculate current reference for active and reactive power injection. In addition, the most recent calculation methods are investigated at unsymmetrical voltage conditions. The proposed SAF is used for active and reactive power injection under voltage distortions and 4-wire power system. keywords: {instantaneous active and reactive power theory;flexible distributed generation (FDG);shunt active filter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6183314&isnumber=6183296

M. Savaghebi, A. Jalilian, J. C. Vasquez and J. M. Guerrero, "Secondary Control Scheme for Voltage Unbalance Compensation in an Islanded Droop-Controlled Microgrid," in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 797-807, June 2012, doi: 10.1109/TSG.2011.2181432.
Abstract: The concept of microgrid hierarchical control is presented recently. In this paper, a hierarchical scheme is proposed which includes primary and secondary control levels. The primary level comprises distributed generators (DGs) local controllers. The local controllers mainly consist of power, voltage and current controllers, and virtual impedance control loop. The central secondary controller is designed to manage the compensation of voltage unbalance at the point of common coupling (PCC) in an islanded microgrid. Unbalance compensation is achieved by sending proper control signals to the DGs local controllers. The design procedure of the control system is discussed in detail and the simulation results are presented. The results show the effectiveness of the proposed control structure in compensating the voltage unbalance.
keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Control systems;Impedance;Inverters;Smart grids;Frequency control;Distributed generator (DG);hierarchical control;microgrid;secondary control;voltage unbalance compensation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6151875&isnumber=6204228


Z. R. Ivanović, E. M. Adžić, M. S. Vekić, S. U. Grabić, N. L. Čelanović and V. A. Katić, "HIL Evaluation of Power Flow Control Strategies for Energy Storage Connected to Smart Grid Under Unbalanced Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 27, no. 11, pp. 4699-4710, Nov. 2012, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2012.2184772.
Abstract: This paper proposes two power flow control algorithms for a grid-connected voltage source converter used as part of the energy storage for a smart grid under unbalanced voltage conditions. Both algorithms are improvements of the dual vector current control algorithm (DVCC). The first proposed algorithm, DVCC_CL, optimizes the method of limiting phase currents for the duration of voltage unbalance. The second proposed algorithm, DVCC_HB, provides high bandwidth control of active and reactive power. Which of the two proposed algorithms is the better choice depends on the grid code requirements and the constraints imposed by the particular energy storage system which the inverter connects to the grid. The operation of both algorithms was verified within the framework of an ultralow-latency hardware-in-the-loop emulator, which makes accurate analysis of converter behavior safe and easy for any grid conditions.
keywords: {Power electronics;Computational modeling;Reactive power;Power quality;Field programmable gate arrays;Smart grids;Energy storage;Current control;energy storage;hardware-in-the-loop (HIL);power control;power quality;smart grid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6133338&isnumber=6222041


J. A. Suul, A. Luna, P. Rodriguez and T. Undeland, "Voltage-Sensor-Less Synchronization to Unbalanced Grids by Frequency-Adaptive Virtual Flux Estimation," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 59, no. 7, pp. 2910-2923, July 2012, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2011.2168793.
Abstract: This paper proposes a simple method for inherently frequency-adaptive virtual flux (VF) estimation intended for voltage-sensor-less grid synchronization and control of voltage source converters. The frequency-adaptive characteristics are obtained by using a second-order generalized integrator configured as a quadrature signal generator (SOGI-QSG) with the grid frequency as an explicit input variable. It is also shown how the properties of VF estimation based on SOGI-QSGs can be utilized to achieve a simple and effective synchronization technique that integrates frequency-adaptive bandpass filtering, VF estimation, and symmetrical component sequence separation into one operation. This new method avoids cascaded delays of VF estimation and sequence separation and is labeled as dual SOGI-based VF (DSOGI-VF) estimation since it is based on two parallel SOGI-QSGs. The properties and performance of the DSOGI-VF estimation are analyzed in comparison to conventional configurations of VF estimation and sequence separation, demonstrating that it is a simpler structure with improved dynamic response. In fact, similar response time as for grid synchronization based on voltage measurements is achieved. The operation and performance of the proposed DSOGI-VF estimation method have been verified by laboratory experiments in a small-scale converter setup.
keywords: {Estimation;Frequency estimation;Synchronization;Integrated circuits;Voltage measurement;Band pass filters;Low pass filters;Grid synchronization;three-phase voltage source converter (VSC);unbalanced grid voltage;virtual flux (VF);voltage-sensor-less control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6022790&isnumber=6151927


C. A. Busada, S. Gomez Jorge, A. E. Leon and J. A. Solsona, "Current Controller Based on Reduced Order Generalized Integrators for Distributed Generation Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 59, no. 7, pp. 2898-2909, July 2012, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2011.2167892.
Abstract: This paper presents a current controller based on a stationary reference frame implementation of an integrator in the synchronous reference frame [called here reduced order generalized integrator (ROGI)], suitable for three-phase distributed generation systems. The proposed controller is compared with the traditional second-order generalized integrator (SOGI)-based current controller. It is confirmed that, in normal operation conditions, both controllers have similar performance, requiring the ROGI-based controller much less computational burden than the SOGI counterpart. The proposed controller injects sinusoidal currents synchronized with the grid voltage, without requiring any dedicated synchronization algorithm. Three different current injection strategies are realizable with the same controller structure: balanced current injection, constant instantaneous active power injection, and maximum instantaneous active power injection. A state-variable-based control methodology in the discrete-time domain is presented. It ensures the stability and performance of the closed-loop system, even for high-order controllers and large digital signal processor processing delay. Moreover, it is confirmed that the proposed controller works satisfactorily even on faulty grid conditions.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Frequency control;Resonant frequency;Synchronization;Delay;Circuit faults;Digital signal processing;Current controller;distributed generation;generalized integrator;resonant controller;second-order generalized integrator (SOGI);voltage source converter (VSC)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6019050&isnumber=6151927


M. Savaghebi, J. M. Guerrero, A. Jalilian and J. C. Vasquez, "Hierarchical control scheme for voltage unbalance compensation in islanded microgrids," IECON 2011 - 37th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 2011, pp. 3158-3163, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2011.6119815.Abstract: The concept of microgrid hierarchical control is presented, recently. In this paper, a hierarchical scheme which includes primary and secondary control levels is proposed for islanded microgrids. The primary control level consists of DG local controllers. Local controller of each DG comprises active and reactive power controllers, virtual impedance loop and voltage and current controllers. The secondary level is designed to compensate the voltage unbalance at the load bus (LB) of the islanded microgrid. Also, restoration of LB voltage amplitude and microgrid frequency to the rated values is considered in the secondary level. These functions are achieved by proper control of distributed generators (DGs) interface converters. The presented simulation results show the effectiveness of the proposed control structure in compensating the voltage unbalance and restoring the voltage amplitude and system frequency. keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Impedance;Frequency control;Inverters;Erbium;Control systems;distributed generation;microgrid;hierarchical control;voltage unbalance compensation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6119815&isnumber=6119266

S. Arcuri, M. Liserre, D. Ricchiuto, T. Kerekes and F. Blaabjerg, "Stability analysis of grid inverter LCL-filter resonance in wind or photovoltaic parks," IECON 2011 - 37th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 2011, pp. 2499-2504, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2011.6119702.Abstract: Typically the resonance problems related to the use of LCL-filters in grid connected inverters are analyzed assuming the operation of a single inverter. Wind and photovoltaic parks may experience propagation of resonance from a poorly damped inverter to other systems connected in parallel. The paper focuses on the study of the resonance at a park system level with simulations and experimental results. keywords: {Damping;Inverters;Resistors;Active filters;Reactive power;Resonant frequency;Current control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6119702&isnumber=6119266

S. Dasgupta, S. N. Mohan, S. K. Sahoo and S. K. Panda, "A FBD theory based grid frequency independent current reference generation method for a three phase inverter interfacing renewable energy sources to generalized micro-grid," IECON 2011 - 37th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 2011, pp. 3076-3081, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2011.6119801.Abstract: In this paper, inverter reference current generation using position sampled FBD method for a three inverter interfacing the renewable energy source to the generalized micro-grid is proposed. The proposed method facilitates high bandwidth grid active power flow control along with grid current THD control facility by finding suitable current references directly in the a-b-c frame. The proposed method is less computational intensive than the conventional p-q theory based methods because of the absence of phase lock loop (PLL), Park's transformation requirements and positive and negative sequence grid voltages extraction. The proposed method is also independent of grid voltage fundamental frequency and capable of rejecting the grid voltage harmonics. The proposed method is validated with experimental study and test results presented depict the efficacy of the proposed system. keywords: {Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Renewable energy resources;Power system harmonics;Reactive power;Oscillators;Time frequency analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6119801&isnumber=6119266

M. Savaghebi, J. M. Guerrero, A. Jalilian and J. C. Vasquez, "Secondary control for voltage unbalance compensation in an islanded microgrid," 2011 IEEE International Conference on Smart Grid Communications (SmartGridComm), Brussels, Belgium, 2011, pp. 499-504, doi: 10.1109/SmartGridComm.2011.6102373.Abstract: In this paper, the concept of secondary control is applied for voltage unbalance compensation in an islanded microgrid. The aim of the proposed control approach is to enhance the voltage quality at the point of common coupling (PCC). Unbalance compensation is achieved by proper control of distributed generators (DGs). The DGs control structure mainly consists of active and reactive power controllers, virtual impedance loop and voltage and current proportional-resonant controllers. Simulation results are presented for different cases. The results show the effectiveness of the proposed approach in the compensation of voltage unbalance. keywords: {Voltage control;Reactive power;Impedance;Inverters;Control systems;Band pass filters;Frequency control;distributed generation;microgrid;secondary control;voltage unbalance compensation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6102373&isnumber=6102296

W. Li, D. Pan, X. Ruan and X. Wang, "A full-feedforward scheme of grid voltages for a three-phase grid-connected inverter with an LCL filter," 2011 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2011, pp. 96-103, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2011.6063754.Abstract: For a current controlled grid-connected inverter, the grid voltage distortion will give rise to the injected grid current harmonics. Besides, for the three-phase grid-connected inverter, under the unbalanced grid voltage condition, the injected grid currents will become unbalanced. This paper aims at weakening the effect of the grid voltages on the injected grid currents for a three-phase grid-connected inverter with an LCL filter. The full-feedforward scheme of the grid voltages is investigated in this paper. The full-feedforward function of the grid voltages in the stationary α-β frame for a three-phase grid-connected inverter with an LCL filter is proposed. This full-feedforward function consists of three parts, which is proportional part, derivative part and second derivative part. With the proposed full-feedforward scheme of the grid voltages, approximately zero steady-state error of the injected grid currents at line frequency can be achieved even with proportional-integral (PI) compensators as the injected grid current regulators in the stationary α-β frame. The injected grid current distortion and unbalance caused by the grid voltages are also greatly reduced. At last, the effectiveness of the proposed full-feedforward scheme is verified by the experimental results. keywords: {Power harmonic filters;Inverters;Feedforward neural networks;Harmonic analysis;Capacitors;Inductors;Harmonic distortion},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6063754&isnumber=6063732

F. Blaabjerg, M. Liserre and K. Ma, "Power electronics converters for wind turbine systems," 2011 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2011, pp. 281-290, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2011.6063781.Abstract: The steady growth of installed wind power which reached 200 GW capacity in 2010, together with the up-scaling of the single wind turbine power capability - 7 MW's has been announced by manufacturers - has pushed the research and development of power converters towards full scale power conversion, lowered cost pr kW, and increased power density and the need for higher reliability. Substantial efforts are made to comply with the more stringent grid codes, especially grid faults ride-through and reactive power injection, which challenges power converter topologies, because the need for crowbar protection and/or power converter over-rating has been seen in the case of a doubly-fed induction generator. In this paper, power converter technologies are reviewed with focus on single/multi-cell power converter topologies. Further, case studies on the Low Voltage Ride Through demand to power converter technology are presented including a discussion on reliability. It is concluded that as the power level increases in wind turbines, medium voltage power converters will be a dominant power converter configuration. keywords: {Wind turbines;Generators;Topology;Power electronics;Switches;Wind power generation;Reactive power},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6063781&isnumber=6063732

F. Blaabjerg and J. M. Guerrero, "Smart grid and renewable energy systems," 2011 International Conference on Electrical Machines and Systems, Beijing, China, 2011, pp. 1-10, doi: 10.1109/ICEMS.2011.6073290.Abstract: The electrical energy consumption continues growing and more applications relay on electricity. We can expect that more 60 % of all energy consumption will be converted and used as electricity. Therefore, it is a demand that production, distribution and use of electrical energy are done as efficient as possible. Further, the recent challenges with nuclear power plants are arguing to find more sustainable energy generation solutions. Of many options, two major technologies will play important roles to solve parts of those future challenges. One is to change the electrical power production from conventional, fossil based energy sources to renewable energy sources. Another is to use high efficient power electronics in power generation, power transmission/distribution and end-user application. This paper discus trends of the future grid infrastructure as well as the most emerging renewable energy sources, wind energy and photovoltaics. Then main focus is on the power electronics and control technology for wind turbines as they are the largest renewable power contributor, allowing their penetration into a SmartGrid to be even higher in the future. keywords: {Wind turbines;Production;Generators;Power electronics;Wind power generation;Renewable energy resources;Power systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6073290&isnumber=6073288

J. Hu, J. Zhu, Q. Ma and Y. Zhang, "Predictive direct virtual torque control of doubly fed induction generator for grid synchronization," 2011 International Conference on Electrical Machines and Systems, Beijing, China, 2011, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ICEMS.2011.6073497.Abstract: Predictive direct torque control (PDTC) has been proposed and well developed because of its excellent steady-state and transient performance. On the other hand, due to the elimination of proportional-integral regulator, direct virtual torque control was presented and proved to be an effective method for doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) grid synchronization. This paper proposes a novel DFIG grid synchronization strategy combining the merits of PDTC and virtual torque concept. The control system is very simple and robust while the smooth and fast grid synchronization is achieved. keywords: {Torque;Stators;Rotors;Vectors;Synchronization;Torque control;Voltage control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6073497&isnumber=6073288

M. Savaghebi, J. M. Guerrero, A. Jalilian and J. C. Vasquez, "Experimental evaluation of voltage unbalance compensation in an islanded microgrid," 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Gdansk, Poland, 2011, pp. 1453-1458, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2011.5984374.Abstract: In this paper, a method for voltage unbalance compensation in an islanded microgrid based on the proper control of distributed generators (DGs) interface converter is proposed. In this method, active and reactive power control loops are considered to control the power sharing among the DGs. Also, a virtual impedance loop and voltage and current proportional-resonant controllers are included. Experimental results show the effectiveness of the proposed method for compensating voltage unbalance to an acceptable level. keywords: {Voltage control;Inverters;Reactive power;Impedance;Mathematical model;Control systems;Band pass filters},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5984374&isnumber=5984066

J. Guerrero, "Connecting renewable energy sources into the smartgrid," 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Gdansk, Poland, 2011, pp. 2400-2566, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2011.5984420.Abstract: A collection of slides about microgrids from the author's conference presentation is given.URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5984420&isnumber=5984066

S. Dasgupta, S. N. Mohan, S. K. Sahoo and S. K. Panda, "Derivation of instantaneous current references for three phase PV inverter connected to grid with active and reactive power flow control," 8th International Conference on Power Electronics - ECCE Asia, Jeju, Korea (South), 2011, pp. 1228-1235, doi: 10.1109/ICPE.2011.5944681.Abstract: In this paper, inverter reference current generation for a three phase grid connected PV inverter under generalized grid voltage conditions is proposed. The proposed method facilitates high bandwidth grid active and reactive power flow control along with minimum DC link ripples with grid current THD control facility by finding suitable current reference directly in the a-b-c frame. The proposed method is much faster than the conventional methods because of the absence of phase lock loop (PLL) and Park's transformation requirements. The proposed method is also independent of grid voltage fundamental frequency and capable of rejecting the grid voltage harmonics. These advantages make it more suitable for micro-grid applications. The proposed method is validated with rigorous experiments and test results presented depict the efficacy of the proposed system. keywords: {Inverters;Reactive power;Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Renewable energy resources;Batteries;Contamination;Three phase grid connected inverter;Micro-grid application;Three phase unbalance generalized grid;pq theory based current reference estimator},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5944681&isnumber=5944368

H. Geng, G. Yang, D. Xu and B. Wu, "Unified Power Control for PMSG-Based WECS Operating Under Different Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 822-830, Sept. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TEC.2011.2127478.
Abstract: A unified power control strategy is proposed for the permanent magnet synchronous generator-based wind energy conversion system (WECS) operating under different grid conditions. In the strategy, the generator-side converter is used to control the dc-link voltage and the grid-side converter is responsible for the control of power flow injected into the grid. The generator-side controller has inherent damping capability of the torsional oscillations caused by drive-train characteristics. The grid-side control is utilized to satisfy the active and reactive current (power) requirements defined in the grid codes, and at the same time mitigates the current distortions even with unsymmetrical grid fault. During grid faults, the generator-side converter automatically reduces the generator current to maintain the dc voltage and the resultant generator acceleration is counteracted by pitch regulation. Compared with the conventional strategy, the dc chopper, which is intended to assist the fault ride through of the WECS, can be eliminated if the proposed scheme is employed. Compared with the variable-structured control scheme, the proposed strategy has quicker and more precise power responses, which is beneficial to the grid recovery. The simulation results verify the effectiveness of the proposed strategy.
keywords: {Converters;Generators;Torque;Damping;Power system dynamics;Voltage control;Power control;Active damping;grid fault;permanent magnetic synchronous generator (PMSG);power control;unbalanced voltage;wind energy conversion system (WECS)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5742990&isnumber=5989996


P. K. Dash and S. Hasan, "A Fast Recursive Algorithm for the Estimation of Frequency, Amplitude, and Phase of Noisy Sinusoid," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 10, pp. 4847-4856, Oct. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2011.2119450.
Abstract: This paper presents an adaptive method for tracking the amplitude, phase, and frequency of a time-varying sinusoid in white noise. Although the conventional techniques like adaptive linear elements and discrete or fast Fourier transforms are still widely used in many applications, their accuracy and convergence speed pose serious limitations under sudden supply frequency drift, fundamental amplitude, or phase variations. This paper, therefore, proposes a fast and low-complexity multiobjective Gauss-Newton algorithm for estimating the fundamental phasor and frequency of the power signal instantly and accurately. Further, the learning parameters in the proposed algorithm are tuned iteratively to provide faster convergence and better accuracy. The proposed method can also be extended to include time-varying harmonics and interharmonics mixed with noise of low signal-to-noise ratio with a great degree of accuracy. Numerical and experimental results are presented in support of the effectiveness of the new approach.
keywords: {Amplitude estimation;Phase estimation;Newton method;Algorithm design and analysis;Amplitude and phase estimation;Gauss–Newton method;linear prediction;Newton method;sinusoid},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5720306&isnumber=6005674


J. Rocabert, G. M. S. Azevedo, A. Luna, J. M. Guerrero, J. I. Candela and P. Rodríguez, "Intelligent Connection Agent for Three-Phase Grid-Connected Microgrids," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 26, no. 10, pp. 2993-3005, Oct. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2011.2116126.
Abstract: The high penetration of distributed generation power plants, based on renewable energy sources (RESs), is boosting the connection of power converters to the electrical network. This generation concept would permit to form local networks, microgrids, when the main grid falls due to any kind of contingency in the network. However, the connection and disconnection of these local networks may give rise to undesired transient overcurrents that should be avoided. In order to solve this drawback, this paper presents a method oriented to carry out a stable intentional disconnection/reconnection of local grids from the main electrical network under grid-fault conditions. This control method has been implemented in a grid-connected power converter that acts as an intelligent connection agent (ICA) and adapts its operation mode according to its connection state. The proposed control also manages the operation of a controlled switch, which is responsible of disconnecting/reconnecting the microgrid from the mains. In this paper, the behavior of the ICA under transient conditions will be discussed, and finally, its simulated and experimental performance will be shown.
keywords: {Synchronization;Converters;Switches;Silicon;Inverters;Uninterruptible power systems;$\alpha\beta$ control;dq-control;distributed power generation;grid-connection and island operation;intentional islanding;microgrid;voltage source converters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5714752&isnumber=6030134


M. Savaghebi, A. Jalilian, J. C. Vasquez and J. M. Guerrero, "Selective compensation of voltage harmonics in an islanded microgrid," 2011 2nd Power Electronics, Drive Systems and Technologies Conference, Tehran, Iran, 2011, pp. 279-285, doi: 10.1109/PEDSTC.2011.5742432.Abstract: Recently, distributed generators are applied not only to inject power into the grid/local load, but also to compensate power quality problems. In this paper, a method for selective voltage harmonics compensation in microgrid based on the proper control of distributed generator (DG) interface converter is proposed. In this method, active and reactive power control loops are considered to control the power sharing among the DGs. Also, a virtual impedance loop and voltage and current proportional-resonant controllers are included. Simulation results show the effectiveness of the proposed method for compensating voltage harmonics to an acceptable level. keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Voltage control;Reactive power;Inverters;Impedance;Resonant frequency;distributed generator (DG);microgrid (MG);selective voltage harmonics compensation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5742432&isnumber=5742396

F. Blaabjerg, F. Iov, T. Kerekes, R. Teodorescu and K. Ma, "Power electronics - key technology for renewable energy systems," 2011 2nd Power Electronics, Drive Systems and Technologies Conference, Tehran, Iran, 2011, pp. 445-466, doi: 10.1109/PEDSTC.2011.5742462.Abstract: The electrical energy consumption continues to grow and more applications are based on electricity. We can expect that more 60 % of all energy consumption will be converted and used as electricity. Therefore, it is a demand that production, distribution and use of electrical energy are done as efficient as possible. Further, the emerging climate changes is arguing to find sustainable future solutions. Of many options, two major technologies will play important roles to solve parts of those future problems. One is to change the electrical power production from conventional, fossil based energy sources to renewable energy sources. Another is to use high efficient power electronics in power generation, power transmission/distribution and end-user application. This paper discuss trends of the most emerging renewable energy sources, wind energy and photovoltaics, which by means of power electronics are changing and challenging the future electrical infrastructure but also contributes steadily more to non-carbon based electricity production. Most focus in the paper is on the power electronics technologies used. In the case of photovoltaics transformer-less systems are discussed as they have the potential to obtain the highest efficiencies keywords: {Wind turbines;Converters;Generators;Rotors;Wind power generation;Photovoltaic systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5742462&isnumber=5742396

R. I. Bojoi, L. R. Limongi, D. Roiu and A. Tenconi, "Enhanced Power Quality Control Strategy for Single-Phase Inverters in Distributed Generation Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 798-806, March 2011, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2010.2103572.
Abstract: Power electronic converters are commonly used for interfacing distributed generation (DG) systems to the electrical power network. This paper deals with a single-phase inverter for DG systems requiring power quality features, such as harmonic and reactive power compensation for grid-connected operation. The idea is to integrate the DG unit functions with shunt active power filter capabilities. With this approach, the inverter controls the active power flow from the renewable energy source to the grid and also performs the nonlinear load current harmonic compensation by keeping the grid current almost sinusoidal. The control scheme employs a current reference generator based on sinusoidal signal integrator and instantaneous reactive power (IRP) theory together with a dedicated repetitive current controller. Experimental results obtained on a 4-kVA inverter prototype demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed solution.
keywords: {Inverters;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Active filters;Reactive power;Power quality;Distributed power generation;power conditioning;power quality},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5680975&isnumber=5767815


S. Dasgupta, S. K. Sahoo and S. K. Panda, "Single-Phase Inverter Control Techniques for Interfacing Renewable Energy Sources With Microgrid—Part I: Parallel-Connected Inverter Topology With Active and Reactive Power Flow Control Along With Grid Current Shaping," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 717-731, March 2011, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2010.2096479.
Abstract: In this paper, a novel current control technique is proposed to control both active and reactive power flow from a renewable energy source feeding a microgrid system through a single-phase parallel-connected inverter. The parallel-connected inverter ensures active and reactive power flow from the grid with low-current total harmonic distortion even in the presence of nonlinear load. A p–q theory-based approach is used to find the reference current of the parallel-connected converter to ensure desired operating conditions at the grid terminal. The proposed current controller is simple to implement and gives superior performance over the conventional current controllers, such as rotating frame proportional–integral controller or stationary frame proportional resonant controller. The stability of the proposed controller is ensured by direct Lyapunov method. A new technique based on the spatial repetitive controller is also proposed to improve the performance of the current controller by estimating the grid and other periodic disturbances. Detailed experimental results are presented to show the efficacy of the proposed current control scheme along with the proposed nonlinear controller to control the active and reactive power flow in a single-phase microgrid under different operating conditions.
keywords: {Inverters;Renewable energy resources;Current control;Reactive power;Lyapunov method;Harmonic analysis;Power demand;Lyapunov-function-based controller;parallel-connected current-controlled voltage source inverter (CCVSI) in microgrid application;parallel-connected inverter;p–q theory-based current calculator;spatial repetitive controller (SRC) based disturbance estimator},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5657265&isnumber=5767815


H. Geng, D. Xu and B. Wu, "A Novel Hardware-Based All-Digital Phase-Locked Loop Applied to Grid-Connected Power Converters," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 5, pp. 1737-1745, May 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2010.2053338.
Abstract: For grid-connected power converters, the frequency and phase angle of the grid voltage, which are essential to the system operations, must be quickly and accurately obtained even if the utility voltage is distorted or unbalanced. In this paper, a novel hardware-based all-digital phase-locked loop (ADPLL) is proposed for grid interface converters to detect the frequency and phase angle based on the voltage zero crossings. The proposed ADPLL features wide track-in range and fast pull-in time, and it can easily be integrated with the digital controller for grid-connected power converters. A discrete small-signal model is presented to investigate the performance and parameter dependence of the ADPLL. As expected, the output phase error and pulse jitter are minimized by selecting a high clock frequency and proper regulator parameters. With additional voltage sensors, the ADPLL can be readily extended into applications with grid disturbances. Experimental results verify the analysis and the effectiveness of the ADPLL.
keywords: {Hardware;Phase locked loops;Voltage;Frequency conversion;Phase distortion;Digital-to-frequency converters;Phase detection;Phase frequency detector;Digital control;Jitter;All-digital phase-locked loop (ADPLL);grid-connected power converters;positive- and negative-sequence separation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5491163&isnumber=5747179


F. Wang, J. L. Duarte and M. A. M. Hendrix, "Pliant Active and Reactive Power Control for Grid-Interactive Converters Under Unbalanced Voltage Dips," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 1511-1521, May 2011, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2010.2052289.
Abstract: During voltage dips continuous power delivery from distributed generation systems to the grid is desirable for the purpose of grid support. In order to facilitate the control of inverter-based distributed power generation adapted to the expected change of grid requirements, generalized power control strategies based on symmetric-sequence components are proposed in this paper, aiming to manipulate the delivered instantaneous power under unbalanced voltage dips. It is shown that active and reactive power can be independently controlled with two individually adaptable parameters. By changing these parameters, the relative amplitudes of oscillating power can be smoothly regulated, as well as the peak values of three-phase grid currents. As a result, the power control of grid-interactive inverters becomes quite flexible and adaptable to various grid requirements or design constraints. Furthermore, two strategies for simultaneous active and reactive power control are proposed that preserve flexible controllability; an application example is given to illustrate the simplicity and adaptability of the proposed strategies for online optimization control. Finally, experimental results are provided that verify the proposed power control.
keywords: {Reactive power control;Voltage fluctuations;Power control;Pulse width modulation inverters;Distributed power generation;Power generation economics;Voltage control;Distributed control;Controllability;Power system faults;Distributed power generation;grid fault;grid-interactive converter;power control;voltage dip},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5482131&isnumber=5899001


A. Luna, F. K. A. Lima, D. Santos, P. Rodriguez, E. H. Watanabe and S. Arnaltes, "Simplified Modeling of a DFIG for Transient Studies in Wind Power Applications," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 9-20, Jan. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2010.2044131.
Abstract: Improving the fault ride-through (FRT) capability of doubly fed induction generators (DFIGs) in wind power applications is a very important challenge for the wind power industry. The mathematical models of such generators enable us to analyze their response under generic conditions. However, their mathematical complexity does not contribute to simplifying the analysis of the system under transient conditions and hence does not help in finding straightforward solutions for enhancing their FRT. This paper presents a simplified model of the DFIG, which has been extracted from the classical fifth-order model, which can accurately estimate the behavior of the system while significantly reducing its complexity. In this paper, the mathematical deduction of this model will be presented, and simulations and experimental results will be shown to demonstrate the accuracy and reliability of the proposed algorithm.
keywords: {Wind energy;Power system transients;Wind energy generation;Power generation;Induction generators;Power system reliability;Mathematical model;Wind power generation;Power generation economics;PSCAD;AC generators;current control;electric variables control;wind power generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5446355&isnumber=5662271


P. Rodríguez, A. Luna, I. Candela, R. Mujal, R. Teodorescu and F. Blaabjerg, "Multiresonant Frequency-Locked Loop for Grid Synchronization of Power Converters Under Distorted Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 127-138, Jan. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2010.2042420.
Abstract: This paper presents a new multiresonant frequency-adaptive synchronization method for grid-connected power converters that allows estimating not only the positive- and negative-sequence components of the power signal at the fundamental frequency but also other sequence components at other harmonic frequencies. The proposed system is called MSOGI-FLL since it is based on both a harmonic decoupling network consisting of multiple second-order generalized integrators (MSOGIs) and a frequency-locked loop (FLL), which makes the system frequency adaptive. In this paper, the MSOGI-FLL is analyzed for single- and three-phase applications, deducing some key expressions regarding its stability and tuning. Moreover, the performance of the MSOGI-FLL is evaluated by both simulations and experiments to show its capability for detecting different harmonic components in a highly polluted grid scenario.
keywords: {Frequency locked loops;Frequency synchronization;Voltage;Frequency estimation;Phase locked loops;Frequency conversion;Distributed power generation;Nonlinear distortion;Pollution;Permission;Frequency estimation;frequency-locked loops (FLLs);harmonic analysis;monitoring;synchronization},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5446347&isnumber=5662271


E. B. Muhando, T. Senjyu, A. Uehara and T. Funabashi, "Gain-Scheduled ${\cal H}_{\infty}$ Control for WECS via LMI Techniques and Parametrically Dependent Feedback Part I: Model Development Fundamentals," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 48-56, Jan. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2010.2045317.
Abstract: Simulation has become the most important technique used today for evaluation of engineering solutions, and modeling plays a crucial part in the design of intelligent control paradigms for complex dynamic structures. For the analysis of a megawatt-class wind-energy conversion system (WECS), this research adopts the H∞ control theory in designing an advanced control paradigm that accomplishes the dual purpose of energy capture optimization, as well as power train cyclic load alleviation by mitigating against wind-speed fluctuations. This work is presented in two parts: The first details the modeling of the subsystems of WECS and introduces the multiobjective H∞ control concept, and the second deals with the implementation of the control paradigm. Presented herein is a modeling approach of individual subsystems as a basis for devising the unified control strategy for a 2-MW grid-connected pitch-regulated variable-speed WECS that incorporates a doubly fed induction generator. The credibility of the archetype, to establish the argument that the models produce sound insights and comparable results to data from the real system, is ascertained via validation.
keywords: {Design engineering;Power engineering and energy;Intelligent control;Wind energy;Control theory;Control systems;Energy capture;Design optimization;Wind speed;Power system modeling;Aerodynamic power;drive train;${\cal H}_{ \infty}$ control;model validation and verification;wind-energy conversion system (WECS)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5432986&isnumber=5662271


E. B. Muhando, T. Senjyu, A. Uehara and T. Funabashi, "Gain-Scheduled ${\cal H}_{\infty}$ Control for WECS via LMI Techniques and Parametrically Dependent Feedback Part II: Controller Design and Implementation," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 57-65, Jan. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2010.2045414.
Abstract: The control of wind-energy conversion systems (WECSs) is still a challenging task for design engineers. Despite being ubiquitous in the wind industry, the performance of classical proportional-integral-derivative controllers is not ideal, and they require additional notch filters to handle turbine nonlinearity. This has triggered interest toward advanced control concepts that are multiobjective and multivariable. With optimality, feedback, and robustness being prerequisites in developing control policies that guarantee high-integrity and fault-tolerant control systems, H∞ control theory has become a standard design method of choice over the past two decades and is gaining prominence in industrial (and WECS) control applications. Based on the linear matrix inequality approach, this paper presents a comprehensive and systematic way of applying the H∞ control design algorithm for automatically gain-scheduling the linear-parameter-varying turbine plant along parameter trajectories. Control seeks to regulate both power and voltage via a synthesis of two controllers, namely, pitch and generator torque, respectively, for a megawatt-class WECS. Digital simulations executed in a MATLAB/Simulink environment ascertain that the control paradigm meets the objectives of optimizing power conversion throughout the operating envelope, as well as eliminating power oscillations through system damping.
keywords: {Feedback;Control systems;Optimal control;Electrical equipment industry;Industrial control;Turbines;Automatic control;Automatic generation control;Torque control;Voltage control;Aerodynamic conversion;blade pitch regulation;drive-train torsional torque;gain scheduling;${\cal H}_{ \infty}$ control;linear parameter varying (LPV)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5432981&isnumber=5662271


S. Zhang, K. -J. Tseng, D. M. Vilathgamuwa, T. D. Nguyen and X. -Y. Wang, "Design of a Robust Grid Interface System for PMSG-Based Wind Turbine Generators," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 316-328, Jan. 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2010.2044737.
Abstract: A robust and reliable grid power interface system for wind turbines using a permanent-magnet synchronous generator (PMSG) is proposed in this paper, where an integration of a generator-side three-switch buck-type rectifier and a grid-side Z-source inverter is employed as a bridge between the generator and the grid. The modulation strategy for the proposed topology is developed from space-vector modulation and Z-source network operation principles. Two PMSG control methods, namely, unity-power-factor control and rotor-flux-orientation control (Id = 0), are studied to establish an optimized control scheme for the generator-side three-switch buck-type rectifier. The system control scheme decouples active- and reactive-power control through voltage-oriented control and optimizes PMSG control for the grid- and generator-side converters independently. Maximum power point tracking is implemented by adjusting the shoot-through duty cycles of the Z-source network. The design considerations of the passive components are also provided. The performances and practicalities of the designed architecture have been verified by simulations and experiments.
keywords: {Robustness;Wind turbines;Mesh generation;Power generation;Wind energy generation;Synchronous generators;Voltage control;Control systems;Power system reliability;Rectifiers;Permanent-magnet synchronous generator (PMSG);rectifier;wind generation;Z-source inverter},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5427024&isnumber=5662271


X. Guo, W. Wu and Z. Chen, "Multiple-Complex Coefficient-Filter-Based Phase-Locked Loop and Synchronization Technique for Three-Phase Grid-Interfaced Converters in Distributed Utility Networks," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 58, no. 4, pp. 1194-1204, April 2011, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2010.2041738.
Abstract: Synchronization with the utility networks is crucial for operating three-phase grid-interfaced converters. A challenge of synchronization is how to fast and precisely extract the fundamental positive and negative sequences under the distorted and unbalanced conditions. Many phase-locked loop (PLL) and synchronization techniques have been presented in the past decades. Most of them make a tradeoff between the accuracy and dynamic response under severe distorted and unbalanced conditions. In this paper, a multiple-complex coefficient-filter-based PLL is presented, and its unique feature lies in the accurate and rapid extraction of the positive and negative sequence components from the polluted grid voltage, and the harmonic components can also be estimated precisely, which has the potential use for selective compensation in active filter applications. Another advantage of the proposed method is its flexibility for simplifying its structure in some specified conditions. Results of continuous-domain simulations in MATLAB and discrete-domain experiments based on a 32-b fixed-point TMS320F2812 DSP are in good agreement, which confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Power harmonic filters;Voltage;Active filters;Harmonic distortion;Permission;Motor drives;Power supplies;Bandwidth;Pollution;Multiple complex-coefficient filters (MCCFs);phase-locked loop (PLL);synchronization;three-phase grid-interfaced converters},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5409639&isnumber=5727983


F. Blaabjerg, F. Iov, Z. Chen and K. Ma, "Power electronics and controls for wind turbine systems," 2010 IEEE International Energy Conference, Manama, Bahrain, 2010, pp. 333-344, doi: 10.1109/ENERGYCON.2010.5771701.Abstract: The electrical energy consumption continues to grow and more applications will be based on electricity in the next decades. We can expect that more 60% of all energy consumption will be converted and used as electricity. It is a demand that production, distribution and use of electrical energy are done as efficient as possible. Further, emerging climate changes argues to find future solutions which also are sustainable. Two major technologies will play important roles to solve parts of those future problems. One is the change the electrical power production from conventional, fossil (and short term) based energy sources to renewable energy sources. Another is to use high efficient power electronics in power generation, power transmission/distribution and end-user application. This paper discuss trends of the most emerging renewable energy sources, wind energy, which by means of power electronics is changing the future electrical infrastructure but also contributes steadily more to non-carbon based electricity production. Most focus is on the power electronics technologies used in wind turbine systems. keywords: {Wind turbines;Rotors;Wind power generation;Power electronics;Topology;Induction generators},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5771701&isnumber=5771653

C. H. Benz, W. . -T. Franke and F. W. Fuchs, "Low voltage ride through capability of a 5 kW grid-tied solar inverter," Proceedings of 14th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference EPE-PEMC 2010, Ohrid, Macedonia, 2010, pp. T12-13-T12-20, doi: 10.1109/EPEPEMC.2010.5606829.Abstract: Distributed power generation systems (DPGS) such as wind and solar become more and more widely spread. As a consequence grid operating companies demand system services. As part of the general fault ride through (FRT) requirements this paper deals with low voltage ride through (LVRT) capability of a three-phase-four-wire grid-tied solar inverter. The standard system will be described and necessary changes to the control such as positive (PS), negative (NS) and zero sequence (ZS) separation, a stable phase-locked-loop (PLL) as well as voltage support by means of reactive current as well as stress factors to the hardware will be identified. keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Phase locked loops;Harmonic analysis;Reactive power;Power quality;Low voltage;Low Voltage Ride Through;LVRT;Fault Ride Through;FRT;Photovoltaik;PV;Solar Inverter;Power Quality;Grid Codes;P+Resonant;P-Resonant;dq0;3 phase 4 wire;three-phase-four-wire},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5606829&isnumber=5606503

F. Blaabjerg, F. Iov, T. Kerekes and R. Teodorescu, "Trends in power electronics and control of renewable energy systems," Proceedings of 14th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference EPE-PEMC 2010, Ohrid, Macedonia, 2010, pp. K-1-K-19, doi: 10.1109/EPEPEMC.2010.5606696.Abstract: The electrical energy consumption continues to grow and more applications will be based on electricity in the next decades. We can expect that more 60 % of all energy consumption will be converted and used as electricity. It is a demand that production, distribution and use of electrical energy are done as efficient as possible. Further, emerging climate changes argues to find future solutions which also are sustainable. Two major technologies will play important roles to solve parts of those future problems. One is the change the electrical power production from conventional, fossil (and short term) based energy sources to renewable energy sources. Another is to use high efficient power electronics in power generation, power transmission/distribution and end-user application. This paper discuss trends of the most emerging renewable energy sources, wind energy and photovoltaics, which by means of power electronics are changing the future electrical infrastructure but also contributes steadily more to non-carbon based electricity production. Most focus is on the power electronics technologies used. In the case of photovoltaics transformer-less systems are discussed as they have the potential to obtain the highest efficiencies. It is concluded the both wind power and photovoltaic technologies are steadily more cost effective as well as contribute rapidly to the total installed electrical power. keywords: {Wind turbines;Converters;Generators;Rotors;Wind power generation;Photovoltaic systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5606696&isnumber=5606503

M. Castilla, J. Miret, J. L. Sosa, J. Matas and L. G. d. Vicuña, "Grid-Fault Control Scheme for Three-Phase Photovoltaic Inverters With Adjustable Power Quality Characteristics," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 25, no. 12, pp. 2930-2940, Dec. 2010, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2010.2070081.
Abstract: The power quality of a three-phase photovoltaic (PV) inverter drastically deteriorates in the presence of grid faults with unbalanced voltages. A ripple in the injected power and an increase in the current harmonic distortion are the main noticeable adverse effects produced by this abnormal grid situation. Several grid-fault control schemes are nowadays available for operating under unbalanced grid voltage. These control schemes usually have extreme power quality characteristics. Some of them have been conceived to completely avoid power ripple during unbalanced voltage sags, but at an expense of high current harmonic distortion. With other schemes, the harmonic distortion is totally eliminated but at an expense of high ripple in the injected power. This paper further explores the performance of PV inverters under unbalanced voltage sags. It has three theoretical contributions: 1) a generalized control scheme, which includes the aforementioned grid-fault controllers as particular cases; 2) a control strategy based on the use of continuous values for the control parameters. This original approach gives adjustable power quality characteristics that cannot be achieved with the previous control schemes; 3) three different control algorithms for calculating the continuous values of the control parameters. These contributions are experimentally validated with a digital signal processor-based laboratory prototype.
keywords: {Power quality;Inverters;Harmonic distortion;Voltage fluctuations;Photovoltaic systems;Oscillators;DC–AC power conversion;photovoltaic (PV) power systems;power quality},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5560869&isnumber=5675792


Xin Yan and Jiagen Du, "A localization algorithm for wireless sensor networks on power grid cables," 2010 3rd International Conference on Advanced Computer Theory and Engineering(ICACTE), Chengdu, China, 2010, pp. V3-49-V3-53, doi: 10.1109/ICACTE.2010.5579849.Abstract: Wireless sensor networks (WSN), as a cutting-edge techniques in information acquisition and processing, can be widely used in many areas. WSN used in fault localization system on power grid cables is the research focus of intelligent power grid. We improve the traditional DV_Hop algorithm and propose a feasible method of failure localization which can be applied on power grid cables. keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Q measurement;Wireless communication;Monitoring;WSN;power grid cables;localization;DV_Hop},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5579849&isnumber=5579079

H. J. Laaksonen, "Protection Principles for Future Microgrids," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 25, no. 12, pp. 2910-2918, Dec. 2010, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2010.2066990.
Abstract: Realization of future low-voltage (LV) microgrids requires that all technical issues, such as power and energy balance, power quality and protection, are solved. One of the most crucial one is the protection of LV microgrid during normal and island operation. In this paper, protection issues of LV microgrids are presented and extensions to the novel LV-microgrid-protection concept has been developed based on simulations with PSCAD simulation software. Essential in the future-protection concept for LV microgrids will be the utilization of high speed, standard, e.g., IEC-61850-based communication to achieve fast, selective, and reliable operation protection.
keywords: {Protection;Smart grids;Density estimation robust algorithm;Fault currents;Low voltage;Power quality;IEC standards;Energy storage;Intelligent systems;Intelligent networks;Distributed generation (DG);energy storage;islanding;low voltage (LV);microgrid;protection;smart grids},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5549919&isnumber=5675792


J. Du and X. Yan, "An Improved DV_HOP Algorithm used to Failure Localization on Power Grid Cables," 2010 Ninth International Symposium on Distributed Computing and Applications to Business, Engineering and Science, Hong Kong, China, 2010, pp. 337-341, doi: 10.1109/DCABES.2010.75.Abstract: This paper briefly describes the characteristics of wireless sensor networks (WSN) and introduces it into the power grid. WSN can dynamically monitor malfunctions on power grid cables. This is the significance of the article. We make some improvements on the DV_Hop algorithm in WSN and propose a feasible method of failure localization which can be applied on power grid cables. keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Monitoring;Power grids;Wireless communication;Algorithm design and analysis;Poles and towers;Power transmission lines;power grid cables localization;WSN;DV_HOP},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5571655&isnumber=5570815

Xiongfei Wang, J. M. Guerrero and Z. Chen, "Control of grid interactive AC microgrids," 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Bari, Italy, 2010, pp. 2211-2216, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2010.5637807.Abstract: Over the last decade, distributed energy resources (DER) technology has undergone a fast development. Increased penetration of DER units and wide spread use of renewable energy sources challenge the entire architecture of traditional power system. Microgrid, characterizing higher flexibility and reliability, becomes an attractive candidate for the configuration of future electrical power system. This paper gives a brief review of grid interactive ac microgrid configurations. Control methods for power electronics interfaced DER units in grid interactive ac microgrids are discussed. In addition, microgrid controls and power management strategies are presented. Future trends of microgrid are discussed pointing out how this concept can be a key to achieve a more intelligent and flexible AC grid. keywords: {Density estimation robust algorithm;Voltage control;Reactive power;Power electronics;Frequency control;Harmonic analysis;Impedance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5637807&isnumber=5635477

R. Bojoi, L. R. Limongi, D. Roiu and A. Tenconi, "Enhanced power quality control strategy for single-phase inverters in distributed generation systems," 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Bari, Italy, 2010, pp. 2727-2732, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2010.5637010.Abstract: Power electronic converters are commonly used for interfacing distributed generation systems to the electrical power network. This paper deals with a single-phase inverter for distributed generation systems requiring power quality features, such as harmonic and reactive power compensation for grid-connected operation. The idea is to integrate the DG unit functions with shunt active power filter capabilities. With the proposed approach, the inverter controls the active power flow from the renewable energy source to the grid and also performs the non-linear load current harmonic compensation keeping the grid current almost sinusoidal. The control scheme employs a current reference generator based on Sinusoidal Signal Integrator (SSI) and Instantaneous Reactive Power (IRP) theory together with a repetitive current controller. Experimental results obtained on a 4 kVA inverter prototype demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed solution. keywords: {Inverters;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Active filters;Steady-state;Filtering theory},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5637010&isnumber=5635477

X. Wang, J. M. Guerrero, Z. Chen and F. Blaabjerg, "Distributed energy resources in grid interactive AC microgrids," The 2nd International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems, Hefei, China, 2010, pp. 806-812, doi: 10.1109/PEDG.2010.5545802.Abstract: Increased penetration of distributed energy resources (DER) and large-scale deployment of renewable energy sources are challenging the entire architecture of traditional power system. Microgrid, featuring higher flexibility and reliability, becomes an attractive candidate for the configuration of future electrical power system. This paper gives an overview of DER units in the grid interactive ac microgrid. The options in structures and control methods of power electronics interfaced DER units are described. Instantaneous load sharing strategies among DER units in the islanded microgrid operations are discussed pointing out the importance of closed loop system output impedance for the power electronics interfaced DER units. keywords: {Density estimation robust algorithm;Voltage control;Converters;Impedance;Reactive power;Wind turbines;AC microgrids;electronically-coupled DER unit;instantaneous load sharing},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5545802&isnumber=5545737

A. Moallem, A. Bakhshai and P. Jain, "An enhanced stationary reference frame control for grid-connected distributed power generation systems," Intelec 2010, Orlando, FL, USA, 2010, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/INTLEC.2010.5525653.Abstract: This paper presents an enhanced stationary reference frame control scheme that enables the grid-connected distributed power generation systems (DPGS) to provide high quality electric power under unbalanced input voltage conditions. In the proposed scheme, the positive and negative sequence components of currents are regulated based on stationary frame current references. Since the current references are expressed in α-β frame, proportional-resonant (PR) controllers are employed to achieve zero steady state error. Detailed mathematical derivation is presented. A fast and accurate active notch filter based (ANF-based) symmetrical component extractor is employed to extract the symmetrical components of the 3-phase voltages and currents. An extra module is introduced and added in order to enhance the system to compensate the grid harmonic currents. Simulations results verify the validity of the proposed control approach and its performance. keywords: {Distributed control;Control systems;Distributed power generation;Voltage control;Power systems;Proportional control;Steady-state;Error correction;Active filters;Power harmonic filters},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5525653&isnumber=5525641

G. Spagnuolo et al., "Renewable Energy Operation and Conversion Schemes: A Summary of Discussions During the Seminar on Renewable Energy Systems," in IEEE Industrial Electronics Magazine, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 38-51, March 2010, doi: 10.1109/MIE.2010.935863.
Abstract: A short summary of some speeches given during Seminar on Renewable Energy system (SERENE) is presented. The contributions have been mainly focused on power electronics for photovoltaic (PV) and sea wave energies, pointing out some aspects related to efficiency, reliability, and grid integration. Finally, main issues concerning fuel cell (FC) systems as generators based on hydrogen as a low environmental impact energy vector are presented.
keywords: {Renewable energy resources;Seminars;Pulse width modulation;Power system reliability;Silicon carbide;Power generation;Costs;Switching converters;Voltage control;Switches},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5439051&isnumber=5439039


C. D. Rodríguez-Valdez and R. J. Kerkman, "Phase Locked Loop for unbalanced utility conditions," 2010 Twenty-Fifth Annual IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Palm Springs, CA, USA, 2010, pp. 634-641, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2010.5433603.Abstract: A Phase-Locked-Loop (PLL) to deal with unbalanced utility conditions is introduced in this paper. The classical 3-phase PLL structure [1], [2] is studied first to gain a better understanding of the effect of the unbalance on the PLL [3]-[8]. Then, enhancements are proposed to improve the ability of the PLL to deal with unbalance. Finally, simulation and experimental results are presented. keywords: {Phase locked loops;Variable speed drives;Active filters;Voltage fluctuations;Capacitors;Inverters;Transformers;Cables;Switches;Rectifiers},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5433603&isnumber=5433335

V. C. Gungor, B. Lu and G. P. Hancke, "Opportunities and Challenges of Wireless Sensor Networks in Smart Grid," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 57, no. 10, pp. 3557-3564, Oct. 2010, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2039455.
Abstract: The collaborative and low-cost nature of wireless sensor networks (WSNs) brings significant advantages over traditional communication technologies used in today's electric power systems. Recently, WSNs have been widely recognized as a promising technology that can enhance various aspects of today's electric power systems, including generation, delivery, and utilization, making them a vital component of the next-generation electric power system, the smart grid. However, harsh and complex electric-power-system environments pose great challenges in the reliability of WSN communications in smart-grid applications. This paper starts with an overview of the application of WSNs for electric power systems along with their opportunities and challenges and opens up future work in many unexploited research areas in diverse smart-grid applications. Then, it presents a comprehensive experimental study on the statistical characterization of the wireless channel in different electric-power-system environments, including a 500-kV substation, an industrial power control room, and an underground network transformer vault. Field tests have been performed on IEEE 802.15.4-compliant wireless sensor nodes in real-world power delivery and distribution systems to measure background noise, channel characteristics, and attenuation in the 2.4-GHz frequency band. Overall, the empirical measurements and experimental results provide valuable insights about IEEE 802.15.4-compliant sensor network platforms and guide design decisions and tradeoffs for WSN-based smart-grid applications.
keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Smart grids;Power systems;Sensor phenomena and characterization;Collaboration;Communications technology;Mesh generation;Power generation;Power system reliability;Substations;CC2420;diagnostics;IEEE 802.15.4;link-quality indicator (LQI);monitoring;received signal strength indicator (RSSI);smart grid;wireless sensor networks (WSNs)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5406152&isnumber=5567234


S. Orts-Grau, J. C. Alfonso-Gil, F. J. Gimeno-Sales and S. Segui-Chilet, "New Resolution of the Unbalance Power According to Std. 1459," in IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 341-350, Jan. 2010, doi: 10.1109/TPWRD.2009.2033964.
Abstract: Harmonic distortion and load unbalances have been an important issue in the last few years, motivating a large number of studies in active power compensators used for the power network quality improvement. Following an approach similar to the one used in IEEE Std. 1459 for the non-fundamental effective apparent power, a new resolution of the unbalance power is presented in this paper. The proposed power magnitudes allow explanation of the results obtained when shunt active power compensators are used in customer installations to improve the power quality. Related to the new unbalance power resolution, new merit factors are introduced in this paper to provide a measure of the quality level in the installation. Simulated and experimental results are analyzed in the paper by using the proposed resolution.
keywords: {Power quality;Instruments;Power measurement;Energy resolution;Power engineering and energy;Pollution measurement;Analytical models;Power filters;Electrical products industry;Government;Active power filters;electrical power-quality indexes;IEEE Std. 1459;revenue power quantities;unbalance power resolution},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5352334&isnumber=5361446


D. Roiu, R. I. Bojoi, L. R. Limongi and A. Tenconi, "New Stationary Frame Control Scheme for Three-Phase PWM Rectifiers Under Unbalanced Voltage Dips Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 268-277, Jan.-feb. 2010, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2009.2036674.
Abstract: A new stationary frame control scheme for three-phase pulsewidth-modulation (PWM) rectifiers operating under unbalanced voltage dips conditions is proposed in this paper. The proposed control scheme regulates the instantaneous active power at the converter poles to minimize the harmonics of the input currents and the output voltage ripple. This paper's novelty is the development of a new current-reference generator implemented directly in stationary reference frame. This allows using proportional sinusoidal signal integrator (P-SSI) controllers for simultaneous compensation of both positive and negative current sequence components. No phase-locked loop (PLL) strategies and coordinate transformations are needed for the proposed current-reference generator. Experimental results are presented for a 20-kV A alternative current (ac)/direct current (dc) converter prototype to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme. A comparison with two other existing control techniques is also performed. Fast dynamic performance with small dc-link voltage ripple and input sinusoidal currents are obtained with this control scheme, even under severe voltage dips operating conditions.
keywords: {Pulse width modulation;Voltage control;Rectifiers;Voltage fluctuations;Phase locked loops;Space vector pulse width modulation;Power system harmonics;DC generators;Proportional control;Analog-digital conversion;AC/DC converter;current-reference generator;voltage dips},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5339211&isnumber=5393147


D. Yazdani, A. Bakhshai and P. Jain, "Adaptive notch filtering based grid synchronization techniques for converter interfaced distributed generation systems," 2009 35th Annual Conference of IEEE Industrial Electronics, Porto, Portugal, 2009, pp. 3963-3969, doi: 10.1109/IECON.2009.5415356.Abstract: This paper briefly reviews the adaptive notch filter (ANF) based synchronization techniques for single and three-phase converter-interfaced distributed generation (DG) systems. These techniques are compared in terms of their capability in tracking the grid frequency variations in the presence of low order harmonics and unbalance conditions. The techniques introduced in this paper are applicable for a wide range of converter-interfaced DG units, e.g. wind, photovoltaic, and fuel cells, and also in active power filters and uninterrupted power supplies. keywords: {Adaptive filters;Filtering;Distributed control;Active filters;Frequency synchronization;Power harmonic filters;Photovoltaic systems;Solar power generation;Fuel cells;Power supplies;Grid-synchronization techniques;grid-connected converters;distributed generation systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5415356&isnumber=5414636

E. Demirok, D. Sera, R. Teodorescu, P. Rodriguez and U. Borup, "Clustered PV inverters in LV networks: An overview of impacts and comparison of voltage control strategies," 2009 IEEE Electrical Power & Energy Conference (EPEC), Montreal, QC, Canada, 2009, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/EPEC.2009.5420366.Abstract: High penetration of photovoltaic (PV) inverters in low voltage (LV) distribution network challenges the voltage stability due to interaction between multiple inverters and grid. As the main objective is to provide more power injection from VSC-based PV inverters, grid stability, reliability and power quality must be maintained or improved by adding cooperative control features to the grid-connected inverters. This paper first gives an overview of bilateral impacts between multiple distributed generations (DG) and grid. Regarding of these impacts, recent advances in static grid voltage support functionalities to increase penetration level are compared considering voltage rise limitation. Steady-state simulation study is realized in PSCAD/EMTDC and the results are discussed in terms of total generation efficiency. keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Stability;Photovoltaic systems;Solar power generation;Low voltage;Power quality;Maintenance;Distributed control;Steady-state;Distributed generation (DG);LV network;power curtailment;PV inverter;reactive power control;voltage control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5420366&isnumber=5420362

G. M. S. Azevedo, P. Rodriguez, M. C. Cavalcanti, G. Vázquez and F. A. S. Neves, "New control strategy to allow the photovoltaic systems operation under grid faults," 2009 Brazilian Power Electronics Conference, Bonito-Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil, 2009, pp. 196-201, doi: 10.1109/COBEP.2009.5347705.Abstract: This paper presents a new control strategy that allows the photovoltaic system operation under grid faults without overcurrent and assuring grid sinusoidal currents. The current limiter is made indirectly by using an active power limiter that is calculated dynamically based on the grid positive-sequence voltage. The paper also shows that the classic control strategies used in the PV systems cause harmonic current injections on the electrical grid and dangerous overcurrents when voltage sags occur. The strategy presented here overcomes these drawbacks and allows the inverter operation under any unbalanced condition. The control is made on stationary reference frame using Proportional-Resonant current control. This new control strategy is compared to the classic strategy through simulations in PSCAD/EMTDC and the experimental results prove its effectiveness. keywords: {Control systems;Photovoltaic systems;Current limiters;Voltage control;Power quality;Inverters;Proportional control;Electric current control;PSCAD;EMTDC;Distributed generation;Fault current limiters;Photovoltaic systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5347705&isnumber=5347583

D. Yazdani, A. Bakhshai and P. K. Jain, "Grid synchronization techniques for converter interfaced distributed generation systems," 2009 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, San Jose, CA, USA, 2009, pp. 2007-2014, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2009.5316522.Abstract: This paper briefly reviews the synchronization techniques for single-phase and three-phase converter-interfaced distributed generation (DG) systems. These techniques are compared in terms of their capability in tracking the grid frequency variations in the presence of low order harmonics and unbalance conditions. The techniques introduced in this paper are applicable for a wide range of converter-interfaced DG units, e.g. wind, photovoltaic, and fuel cells, and also in active power filters and uninterrupted power supplies. keywords: {Distributed control;Phase locked loops;Frequency synchronization;Power harmonic filters;Signal generators;Active filters;Voltage;Phase detection;Low pass filters;Adaptive filters;Grid-synchronization techniques;grid-connected converters;distributed generation systems;grid monitoring},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5316522&isnumber=5315930

F. Wang, J. L. Duarte and M. A. M. Hendrix, "Active and reactive power control schemes for distributed generation systems under voltage dips," 2009 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition, San Jose, CA, USA, 2009, pp. 3564-3571, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2009.5316564.Abstract: During voltage dips continuous power delivery from distributed generation systems to the grid is desirable for the purpose of grid support. In order to facilitate the control of distributed generation systems adapted to the expected change of grid requirements, generalized power control schemes based on symmetric-sequence components are proposed in this paper for inverter-based distributed generation, aiming at manipulating the delivered instantaneous power under voltage dips. It is shown that active power and reactive power can be independently controlled with two individually adaptable parameters. By changing these parameters, the relative amplitudes of oscillating power can be smoothly regulated, as well as the peak values of three-phase grid currents. As a result, the power control of grid-side inverters becomes quite flexible. Furthermore, two strategies for simultaneous active and reactive power control are proposed that preserves adaptive controllability. Finally, the proposed schemes are verified experimentally. keywords: {Reactive power control;Distributed control;Voltage fluctuations;Power control;Voltage control;Control systems;Inverters;Programmable control;Adaptive control;Controllability},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5316564&isnumber=5315930

F. Wang, J. L. Duarte and M. A. M. Hendrix, "Active power control strategies for inverter-based distributed power generation adapted to grid-fault ride-through requirements," 2009 13th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications, Barcelona, Spain, 2009, pp. 1-10.Abstract: Distributed power generation is expected to deliver power into the grid without interruption during voltage dips. To improve system ride-through capabilities, a generalized active power control strategy is proposed for grid-interfacing inverters. Specifically, a current reference generation strategy based on symmetric-sequence components of unbalanced three-phase three-wire or four-wire systems is derived. It is shown that a single adjustable parameter can smoothly change the relative amplitudes of oscillating active and reactive power. This steering possibility enables grid-side inverters to optimally meet different requirements of coming standards. Simulations and experiments are carried out to validate the proposed strategy. keywords: {Power control;Distributed power generation;Power system stability;Voltage fluctuations;Reactive power;Inverters;Virtual colonoscopy;Power quality;Power system reliability;Power generation;Power control;Power quality;Renewable energy systems;Voltage source inverters},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5278907&isnumber=5278662

B. C. Rabelo, W. Hofmann, J. L. da Silva, R. G. de Oliveira and S. R. Silva, "Reactive Power Control Design in Doubly Fed Induction Generators for Wind Turbines," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 4154-4162, Oct. 2009, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2028355.
Abstract: The high penetration level of wind power generation in an interconnected electrical network carries new technical challenges regarding system stability. Despite the stochastic nature of the wind, grid reliability has to be guaranteed. In compliance with power companies' new requirements on wind turbines as regards contribution to voltage regulation, this paper proposes a reactive power controller design for doubly fed induction generator drives. This drive topology enables the control of reactive power independently of the active power flow using both rotor and mains-side inverters. This degree of freedom is used in order to share the reactive powers circulating in the drive system and resulting from the reactive power required in the network. The controllers are designed using well-known linear control techniques in order to present the same dynamics. Furthermore, the proper reactive power share can be used to enhance the drive efficiency. Experimental results show the performance of the proposed reactive power control.
keywords: {Reactive power control;Induction generators;Wind turbines;Reactive power;Voltage control;Wind power generation;Power system interconnection;Stability;Stochastic processes;Power system reliability;AC motor drives;control strategies;distributed power generation;reactive power;wind turbines},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5191071&isnumber=5238769


P. RodrÍguez, A. Timbus, R. Teodorescu, M. Liserre and F. Blaabjerg, "Reactive Power Control for Improving Wind Turbine System Behavior Under Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 24, no. 7, pp. 1798-1801, July 2009, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2009.2014650.
Abstract:  This letter aims to present a generalized vector-based formulation for calculating the grid-side current reference to control reactive power delivered to the grid. Strategies for current reference generation were implemented on the abc stationary reference frame, and their effectiveness was demonstrated experimentally, perhaps validating the theoretical analysis even under grid fault conditions. 
keywords: {Reactive power control;Wind turbines;Circuit faults;Reactive power;Wind energy generation;Inverters;Wind power generation;Voltage control;Mesh generation;Wind energy;Power distribution faults;pulsewidth modulated inverters;reactive power;wind power generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5175607&isnumber=5075737


D. Yazdani, M. Pahlevaninezhad and A. Bakhshai, "Three-phase grid synchronization techniques for grid connected converters in distributed generation systems," 2009 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Seoul, Korea (South), 2009, pp. 1105-1110, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2009.5222080.Abstract: This paper briefly reviews the synchronization techniques for three-phase converter-interfaced distributed generation (DG) systems. These techniques are compared in terms of their capability in tracking the grid frequency variations in the presence of low order harmonics and unbalance conditions. Moreover, this paper introduces a new three-phase adaptive notch filtering (ANF) synchronization technique. The techniques introduced in this paper are applicable for a wide range of converter-interfaced DG units, e.g. wind, photovoltaic, and fuel cells, and also in active power filters and uninterrupted power supplies. keywords: {Distributed control;Frequency synchronization;Power harmonic filters;Active filters;Adaptive filters;Filtering;Photovoltaic systems;Solar power generation;Fuel cells;Power supplies;Grid-synchronization techniques;grid-connected converters;distributed generation systems;grid monitoring},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5222080&isnumber=5213059

G. M. S. Azevedo, G. Vazquez, A. Luna, D. Aguilar and A. Rolan, "Photovoltaic inverters with fault ride-through Capability," 2009 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Seoul, Korea (South), 2009, pp. 549-553, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2009.5213298.Abstract: This paper presents a new control strategy that allow the photovoltaic system operate under grid faults without overpass the rated current and assuring sinusoidal currents. In the classic control strategies used in photovoltaic systems the power delivered to the grid remains constant when a fault occurs, hence the current can reach dangerous values. Therefore the converter has a protection system to disconnect it avoiding its damage. Thus it must be connected manually when the electrical grid is re-established. The strategy presented here overcomes these drawbacks. It is compared with the classic strategy through simulations in PSCAD and the experimental results prove its effectiveness. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Solar power generation;Inverters;Power system stability;Voltage control;Control systems;Power system protection;PSCAD;Power engineering and energy;Power system simulation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5213298&isnumber=5213059

M. Choopani, H. Askarian Abyaneh, S. H. Fathi and B. Ansari, "Power Exchanging Control of DG Units on Faulty Grid and Time-Varying Frequency Environments," 2009 IEEE Bucharest PowerTech, Bucharest, Romania, 2009, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/PTC.2009.5281820.Abstract: This paper proposed a new power exchanging control under unbalanced-fault conditions. This new control method has been implemented directly in three-phase (abc) reference frame without any additional reference transform and provides independent control of active /reactive power. Furthermore the synchronization is used based on EPLL, which can adopt frequency quickly. Therefore, Transmission System Operators (TSO) can correctly ride-through disturbances occur in the system. keywords: {Frequency;Reactive power control;Photovoltaic systems;Voltage control;Circuit faults;Power system stability;Reactive power;Distributed power generation;Hydroelectric power generation;Wind energy;Fault Ride-Through;Unbalanced Voltages;Frequency-Dependent Power Control;EPLL},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5281820&isnumber=5281781

A. Nagliero, M. Liserre, N. A. Orlando, R. Mastromauro and A. Dell'Aquila, "Implementation on DSP TMS320F2812 of the control of the grid converter of a small wind turbine system," 2009 International Conference on Clean Electrical Power, Capri, Italy, 2009, pp. 415-419, doi: 10.1109/ICCEP.2009.5212021.Abstract: The paper discusses implementation issues related to the control of a three-phase grid-inverter for a wind-turbine system (WTS). The grid-side converter is controlled in order to maintain constant the DC voltage also in presence of grid voltage variations and the sinusoidal currents in phase with the corresponding voltages. PI and P+Resonat controllers are considered. For the P+Resonant controller different digital implementations are evaluated: shift operator based and delta operator based. A performance comparison, in terms of the C-code execution time is presented. The control algorithm based on PI controller has been experimentally verified. keywords: {Digital signal processing;Control systems;Wind turbines;Voltage control;Mesh generation;Inverters;Torque control;Current control;Capacitors;Torque converters;digital current control;wind turbine systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5212021&isnumber=5211951

Yi Li, V. G. Agelidis and Y. Shrivastava, "Wind-solar resource complementarity and its combined correlation with electricity load demand," 2009 4th IEEE Conference on Industrial Electronics and Applications, Xi'an, China, 2009, pp. 3623-3628, doi: 10.1109/ICIEA.2009.5138882.Abstract: The paper presents analysis of wind and solar data for the same geographical location. The wind speed data taken at ground level are calibrated to evaluate the resource available for a large wind turbine with a hub height of approximate 80m. The correlation of each resource data against the electricity load demand for an entire year is then calculated separately and selected results are documented. The combined availability of wind and solar source against the same electricity demand and the respective correlation are also studied confirming that there is a strong complementarity between the two resources although such level of complementarity depends profoundly upon the location. It is shown that a combined resource can effectively deliver energy to the electricity grid when load demand experiences peaks, hence strengthening the case for further integration of wind and solar sources with the electricity grid. The study used actual weather data reported for the Sydney Airport and electricity load for New South Wales, Australia. keywords: {Availability;Power grids;Wind energy;Wind turbines;Photovoltaic systems;Solar power generation;Wind energy generation;Wind farms;Australia;Wind speed;wind energy;solar energy;resource assessment;electricity load demand;correlation;correlation coefficient;correlation fucntion},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5138882&isnumber=5138149

K. Rothenhagen and F. W. Fuchs, "Current Sensor Fault Detection, Isolation, and Reconfiguration for Doubly Fed Induction Generators," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 4239-4245, Oct. 2009, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2017562.
Abstract: Fault tolerance is gaining growing interest to increase the reliability and availability of distributed energy sources. Current sensor fault detection, isolation, and reconfiguration are presented for a voltage-oriented controlled doubly fed induction generator, which is mainly used in wind turbines. The focus of this analysis is on the isolation of the faulty sensor and the actual reconfiguration. During a short period of open-loop operation, the fault is isolated by looking at residuals calculated from observed and measured signals. Then, replacement signals from observers are used to reconfigure the drive and reenter closed-loop control. Laboratory measurement results are included to prove that the proposed concept leads to good results.
keywords: {Fault detection;Induction generators;Circuit faults;Electrical fault detection;Open loop systems;Sensorless control;Rotors;Inverters;Wind energy generation;Sensor systems;Observers;power generation faults;state estimation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4808148&isnumber=5238769


A. Timbus, M. Larsson and C. Yuen, "Active Management of Distributed Energy Resources Using Standardized Communications and Modern Information Technologies," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 4029-4037, Oct. 2009, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2017123.
Abstract: Due to high penetration level in some regions of distributed generators (DGs) based on renewable energy resources, information about their power delivery capabilities is becoming essential for planning and allocating resources and reserves in power system. This paper discusses the modeling of DGs in the utility control and information technology infrastructures of power system operators. The communication standards International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 61400-25 and IEC 61850 and their extensions for DGs are first introduced, followed by an example of mapping wind turbine components onto a communication data model. A distribution network comprising several distributed-generation sources is then described from the control and communication point of view. Simulation results of production cost minimization and network constraint management are presented at the end, illustrating the new possibilities that a system-wide approach can provide for distributed generation.
keywords: {Energy management;Resource management;Technology management;Energy resources;Information technology;Power system planning;Power system modeling;Communication system control;IEC standards;Power system management;Communication standards;distributed generation;IEC 61850;International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 61400-25;wind turbines (WTs)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4808328&isnumber=5238769


Yi Guo, J. N. Jiang and Choon Yik Tang, "Nonlinear control of wind power generation systems," 2009 IEEE/PES Power Systems Conference and Exposition, Seattle, WA, USA, 2009, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/PSCE.2009.4840246.Abstract: This paper proposes a nonlinear control design technique for wind generation systems that deals with both active power and reactive power at the same time in consideration of the fact that the wind generation system is a high order nonlinear dynamical system. Unlike the existing controller designs, the proposed technique is developed based on original nonlinear models of electric machine and wind turbine, and does not use any linear assumption. In addition to the desired reactive power control, the proposed controller also regulates the active power output in either maximum power tracking mode or power regulation mode. The effectiveness of the controller is demonstrated through simulation. keywords: {Nonlinear control systems;Control systems;Wind power generation;Power generation;Wind energy generation;Reactive power control;Control design;Nonlinear dynamical systems;Power system modeling;Electric machines;Wind power generation;active power;reactive power;nonlinear control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4840246&isnumber=4839920

A. Timbus, M. Liserre, R. Teodorescu, P. Rodriguez and F. Blaabjerg, "Evaluation of Current Controllers for Distributed Power Generation Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 654-664, March 2009, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2009.2012527.
Abstract: This paper discusses the evaluation of different current controllers employed for grid-connected distributed power generation systems having variable input power, such as wind turbines and photovoltaic systems. The focus is mainly set on linear controllers such as proportional-integral, proportional-resonant, and deadbeat (DB) controllers. Additionally, an improved DB controller robust against grid impedance variation is also presented. Since the paper discusses the implementation of these controllers for grid-connected applications, their evaluation is made in three operating conditions. First, in steady-state conditions, the contribution of controllers to the total harmonic distortion of the grid current is pursued. Further on, the behavior of controllers in the case of transient conditions like input power variations and grid voltage faults is also examined. Experimental results in each case are presented in order to evaluate the performance of the controllers.
keywords: {Distributed control;Control systems;Distributed power generation;Photovoltaic systems;Wind energy generation;Wind power generation;Pi control;Proportional control;Wind turbines;Robust control;Current controllers;current harmonic distortion;distributed power generation systems (DPGSs);grid faults;input power variations},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4801680&isnumber=4812314


S. Alepuz et al., "Control Strategies Based on Symmetrical Components for Grid-Connected Converters Under Voltage Dips," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 2162-2173, June 2009, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2017102.
Abstract:  Low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) requirements demand wind-power plants to remain connected to the network in presence of grid-voltage dips. Most dips present positive-, negative-, and zero-sequence components. Hence, regulators based on symmetrical components are well suited to control grid-connected converters. A neutral-point-clamped topology has been considered as an active front end of a distributed power-generation system, following the trend of increasing power and voltage levels in wind-power systems. Three different current controllers based on symmetrical components and linear quadratic regulator have been considered. The performance of each controller is evaluated on LVRT requirement fulfillment, grid-current balancing, maximum grid-current value control, and oscillating power flow. Simulation and experimental results show that all three controllers meet LVRT requirements, although different system performance is found for each control approach. Therefore, controller selection depends on the system constraints and the type of preferred performance features. 
keywords: {Voltage control;Voltage fluctuations;Power generation;Power system transients;Power systems;Wind energy generation;Converters;Power conversion;Active filters;Power system stability;Distributed power generation;grid interface;multilevel conversion;three-level inverter;wind-power system},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4801749&isnumber=5062301


D. Yazdani, M. Mojiri, A. Bakhshai and G. JoÓs, "A Fast and Accurate Synchronization Technique for Extraction of Symmetrical Components," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 674-684, March 2009, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2008.2010321.
Abstract:  This paper introduces an approach for the real-time extraction of the frequency, phase angle, and symmetrical components of the grid signal, which is of great importance for many applications in power systems such as power quality and protection. The proposed method is based on the concept of the adaptive notch filter that provides a fast and accurate estimation of the symmetrical components in the presence of frequency and amplitude variations. In addition, the system offers a high degree of immunity and insensitivity to power system disturbances, harmonics, and other types of pollutions that exist in the grid signal. The simplicity of the structure makes the method suitable for both software and hardware implementations. Moreover, this very simple and very powerful tool can be used as a synchronization technique, which further simplifies the control issues currently challenging the integration of distributed energy technologies into the electricity grid. Mathematical derivations are presented to describe the principles of operation, and experimental results confirm the validity of the analytical work. 
keywords: {Power system protection;Frequency synchronization;Power harmonic filters;Frequency estimation;Power system harmonics;Real time systems;Power quality;Adaptive filters;Amplitude estimation;Pollution;Adaptive filters;distributed generation (DG) systems;grid-connected converters;grid-synchronization techniques;renewable energy},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4785497&isnumber=4812314


F. Wang, M. C. Benhabib, J. L. Duarte and M. A. M. Hendrix, "High Performance Stationary Frame Filters for Symmetrical Sequences or Harmonics Separation Under a Variety of Grid Conditions," 2009 Twenty-Fourth Annual IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition, Washington, DC, USA, 2009, pp. 1570-1576, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2009.4802877.Abstract: This paper proposes a group of high performance filters for fundamental positive / negative sequences and harmonics detection under varied grid conditions based on a basic filter cell. The filter cell is demonstrated to be equivalent to a band-pass filter in the stationary frame, and is easily implemented using a multi-state-variable structure. To achieve high performance in different grid conditions, cascaded filters are developed for distorted and unbalanced grids. This paper also analyzes the robustness of the filter for small frequency variations, and improves its frequency-adaptive ability for large frequency changes. Furthermore, it is proved that this filter can also be applied for the synchronization in a single-phase system. Considering the digital implementation of the filter, four discretization methods and the resulting limitations are investigated. The effectiveness of the presented filters is verified by experiments. keywords: {Power harmonic filters;Active filters;Band pass filters;Phase locked loops;Frequency synchronization;Robustness;Open loop systems;Digital filters;Voltage control;Power quality},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4802877&isnumber=4802613

S. Orts-Grau, F. J. Gimeno-Sales, S. Segui-Chilet, A. Abellan-Garcia, M. Alcaniz-Fillol and R. Masot-Peris, "Selective Compensation in Four-Wire Electric Systems Based on a New Equivalent Conductance Approach," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 56, no. 8, pp. 2862-2874, Aug. 2009, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2014368.
Abstract:  This paper presents a new calculation method to obtain the reference currents for a selective shunt active power compensator (APC) with the capability of distinguishing between selective and global operating modes. This selective compensation operation is done through an identification of the current terms related to the physical phenomena that exist in electrical systems following a new equivalent conductance concept. Through this identification, this paper proposes the adequate set of reference currents that, used by a shunt APC (SAPC), achieve the selective cancellation of a desired nonefficient phenomenon. Furthermore, by combining the different current terms, it is possible to derive the sets of reference currents that allow the cancellation of a desired combination of nonefficient phenomena. By using these reference currents, a selective compensation feature is added to the SAPC control. An SAPC based on a three-phase three-leg inverter with a split dc bus has been implemented. The neutral wire of the electrical installation is connected to the midpoint of the dc bus, so the selective SAPC is able to work in four-wire electrical systems. The experimental results obtained demonstrate that the proposed selective compensation properly works in three-phase electrical systems with load-current unbalances, voltage asymmetries, and harmonic components. The electric quality is improved with the use of the proposed selective control based on this new equivalent conductance approach. 
keywords: {Power system management;Reactive power;Power measurement;Control systems;Inverters;Wire;Network topology;Power industry;Medium voltage;Resonance;Electrical quality;harmonic compensation;reactive compensation;selective compensation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4776511&isnumber=5173586


K. Rothenhagen and F. W. Fuchs, "Doubly Fed Induction Generator Model-Based Sensor Fault Detection and Control Loop Reconfiguration," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 4229-4238, Oct. 2009, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2013683.
Abstract: Fault tolerance is gaining interest as a means to increase the reliability and availability of distributed energy systems. In this paper, a voltage-oriented doubly fed induction generator, which is often used in wind turbines, is examined. Furthermore, current, voltage, and position sensor fault detection, isolation, and reconfiguration are presented. Machine operation is not interrupted. A bank of observers provides residuals for fault detection and replacement signals for the reconfiguration. Control is temporarily switched from closed loop into open-loop to decouple the drive from faulty sensor readings. During a short period of open-loop operation, the fault is isolated using parity equations. Replacement signals from observers are used to reconfigure the drive and reenter closed-loop control. There are no large transients in the current. Measurement results and stability analysis show good results.
keywords: {Induction generators;Fault detection;Voltage;Open loop systems;Fault tolerant systems;Availability;Wind turbines;Signal detection;Equations;Stability analysis;Doubly fed induction machine;fault-tolerant control;observers;sensors},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4773265&isnumber=5238769


M. Aredes, H. Akagi, E. Hirokazu Watanabe, E. Vergara Salgado and L. Frizera EncarnaÇÃo, "Comparisons Between the p--q and p--q--r Theories in Three-Phase Four-Wire Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 24, no. 4, pp. 924-933, April 2009, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2008.2008187.
Abstract: This paper presents a comparative analysis between results from applications of the p-q and the p-q-r theories in shunt active power filters for three-phase four-wire systems, discussing aspects related to the influence of the system voltage in the control methods that calculate the compensating currents. It is shown that in some cases, a preprocessing of the system voltage is required if the goal is to achieve sinusoidal compensated currents. On the other hand, when the goal is to compensate zero-sequence current, the need of energy storage elements in the active filter is discussed. In this case, if zero-sequence components are present simultaneously in the system voltage and load current, they produce zero-sequence power flow, and the control methods based on both theories must contain additional calculations to allow the elimination of energy storage elements in the active filter. A control strategy based on the p-q theory is proposed to eliminate the neutral current without the need of energy storage elements, with the advantage of avoiding the extra transformation from alphabeta0 to pqr coordinates that is needed in the p-q-r theory. Simulation results are presented for the purpose of comparing the performance of both control methods.
keywords: {Active filters;Energy storage;Voltage control;Control systems;Power harmonic filters;Reactive power;Load flow;Filtering theory;Power system harmonics;Frequency domain analysis;Active filters;p–q theory;p–q–r theory},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4768697&isnumber=4812316


F. Hassan, M. Wamundson and M. Bollen, "Combined active and reactive power control with converter interfaced energy sources," 2008 IEEE International Conference on Sustainable Energy Technologies, Singapore, 2008, pp. 690-695, doi: 10.1109/ICSET.2008.4747095.Abstract: Reactive power control using converter interfaced energy sources is possible and considered advantageous in certain grids. However, in some cases this is not enough to ensure good voltage quality at the connection point (PCC). It has been shown in this paper that the control of active power, along with the reactive power, can help in relieving the constraints over the injected reactive power and at the same time adds more control flexibility. The control of active power has been realized by using a simple current chopper at the DC-link. It has been shown that with combined active and reactive power control, the voltage quality at both the PCC and DC-link has been enhanced. Moreover, the number of the estimated trips of the converter-interfaced energy source is reduced. keywords: {Reactive power control;Voltage control;Power conversion;Pulse width modulation converters;Power control;Choppers;Turbines;Frequency control;Energy storage;Distributed control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4747095&isnumber=4746961

N. A. Orlando, M. Liserre, V. G. Monopoli, R. A. Mastromauro and A. Dell'Aquila, "Comparison of power converter topologies for permanent magnet small wind turbine system," 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Cambridge, UK, 2008, pp. 2359-2364, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2008.4677183.Abstract: Permanent magnet based wind generators are one of the more promising technology. This paper presents a comparison of power converter topologies for permanent magnet small wind turbine systems to improve the power quality and to extract the maximum power from wind. Two detailed models are presented and explained: the first configuration is made by a diode-bridge rectifier, a boost converter and an inverter connected to the grid, the second configuration is a back-to-back converter. The generator control is designed to maximize the power output and achieve a smooth torque and power profile. The operational characteristics of the two configurations are investigated through simulations. keywords: {Topology;Permanent magnets;Wind turbines;Wind energy generation;Power quality;Power system modeling;Diodes;Rectifiers;Inverters;Power generation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4677183&isnumber=4676877

L. Helle, P. Rodriguez, L. Marco and R. Teodorescu, "Grid requirements, monitoring, synchronization and control of wind turbines under grid faults," 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Cambridge, UK, 2008, pp. 1-102, doi: 10.1109/ISIE.2008.4677327.Abstract: • LVRTcan be implemented with resistive crow-bar and reactive power injection to existing wind farms. • Variable speed wind turbines can do LVRTas they are capable of quickly reduce the torque of the generator and inject reactive power. • The capability of the system to allow ride-through grid disturbances is strictly related to the inverter rating (maximum voltage and current at the ac-side) as well as its dc-link energy storage (maximum/minimum voltage at the dc-side). • A robust control strategy for the grid inverter should ride-through transient faults avoiding under-/over-voltage trip in the dc-bus and output overcurrents due to distortion and imbalance • Reactive power injection is helping the grid voltage to recover • Several strategies for reference current generations. Over-current and under/over voltage should be avoided to ride-through transient faults • Different power delivery strategies under fault are also presented • New grid codes with even more sestrictions during grid faults are expected in the future an more advanced control strategies have to be developed. keywords: {Monitoring;Wind turbines;Power system stability;Reactive power;Inverters;Voltage;Wind farms;Torque;Power generation;Wind energy generation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4677327&isnumber=4676877

K. Rothenhagen and F. W. Fuchs, "Advanced sensor fault detection and control reconfiguration of wind power plants using doubly fed induction generators," 2008 IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference, Rhodes, Greece, 2008, pp. 913-919, doi: 10.1109/PESC.2008.4592046.Abstract: Fault tolerance is gaining growing interest to increase reliability and availability of distributed energy systems where, a model based current and voltage sensor fault detection, isolation and reconfiguration is presented for a voltage oriented controlled double Fed induction generator, which is mainly used in wind turbines. A bank of observers is used to provide residuals for the fault detection and replacement signals for the reconfiguration of the chosen observers and the fault detection via parity emulation and isolation logic are presented in detail during a short period of open loop operation, the fault is isolated when replacement signals from observers are used to reconfigure the drive and re-enter closed loop control. The concept is analised. There are no transients in the current. The installed Crowbar is not triggered. Measurement results are included to prove that the proposed concept leads to good results. keywords: {Observers;Stators;Rotors;Stator windings;Mathematical model;Fault detection;Current measurement},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4592046&isnumber=4591876

L. R. Limongi, R. Bojoi, A. Tenconi and L. Clotea, "Single-phase inverter with power quality features for distributed generation systems," 2008 11th International Conference on Optimization of Electrical and Electronic Equipment, Brasov, Romania, 2008, pp. 313-318, doi: 10.1109/OPTIM.2008.4602426.Abstract: This paper is focused on control solutions for a single-phase inverter for distributed generation (DG) systems requiring power quality features as harmonic and reactive power compensation for grid-connected operation. Based on these characteristics, a new current reference generator based on sinusoidal signal integrator (SSI) and instantaneous reactive power (IRP) is proposed. Simulation and experimental results have been obtained from the proposed scheme implemented along with the repetitive current control. keywords: {Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Inverters;Reactive power;Active filters;Power system harmonics;Steady-state},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4602426&isnumber=4602282

D. Yazdani, A. Bakhshai and G. Joos, "Multifunctional Grid-Connected Multimodule Power Converters Capable of Operating in Single-Pulse and PWM Switching Modes," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 1228-1238, May 2008, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2008.921069.
Abstract: Pulsewidth-modulated (PWM) techniques equip power converters with unique features such as input-output linearity and control flexibility. Nevertheless, frequent switching of semiconductor switching devices causes considerable switching loss, and therefore makes traditional two-level PWM converters inappropriate for high-power applications. Two alternatives for building modular structures, namely multipulse and multimodule PWM converters were introduced to provide not only voltage and current sharing among the semiconductor switching devices, but also a high-quality output voltage at a much lower switching frequency. While multipulse converters offer minimal switching losses, low-order harmonic neutralization, and the best utilization of the inverter, multimodule PWM converters give control flexibility and power structure simplicity. This paper combines these two, and preserves the advantages of both multipulse and multimodule PWM converters. This not only provides an additional degree of freedom for voltage control, but also enables the converter to operate in PWM mode during transient and in single-pulse mode during the steady state. For the PWM switching mode, a special space vector strategy of 3 p.u. switching frequency is presented to maximize the voltage utilization and maintain a linear transfer characteristic. The power structure and control methods are analyzed, and validated by simulation and experimentally.
keywords: {Switching converters;Pulse width modulation;Pulse width modulation converters;Power semiconductor switches;Voltage;Switching loss;Switching frequency;Linearity;Buildings;Power system harmonics;Flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS);grid-connected converters;modulation techniques;multipulse converters;space-vector modulation (SVM)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4488225&isnumber=4509502


J. Matas, M. Castilla, J. M. Guerrero, L. G. de Vicuna and J. Miret, "Feedback Linearization Of Direct-Drive Synchronous Wind-Turbines Via a Sliding Mode Approach," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 1093-1103, May 2008, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2008.921192.
Abstract: As the grid code specifies, wind turbines have to remain connected to the grid at voltage levels far below the nominal values. The improvement of wind turbine performance under such conditions has become a problem of general concern. However, this performance usually relies on conventional linear controllers that operate at network faults far off the nominal point for which they were designed. As a consequence, wind turbines should operate with increasing converter currents, which may result in converter damage. This paper proposes a nonlinear controller for converter-based wind turbines that ensures that the currents are maintained within the design limits. The controller is based on feedback linearization theory and is applied to the system through a sliding mode approach. This controller is robust against system perturbations and uncertainties, and overcomes the usually complex implementation that is associated with feedback linearization controllers.
keywords: {Wind turbines;Sliding mode control;Power system stability;Wind energy;Linear feedback control systems;Control systems;Power generation;Circuit faults;Voltage fluctuations;Wind energy generation;Feedback linearization;grid fault;ride-through control;sliding mode control;wind energy;wind power generation},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4509507&isnumber=4509502


