Y. Luo, J. Yao, D. Yang, L. Zhao and R. Jin, "Transient Interaction Mechanism Analysis and Stability Control of Multi-Paralleled DFIG-Based WTs During Asymmetrical Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 434-451, Jan. 2025, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2024.3462789.
Abstract: In this article, from the perspective of DC-link voltage (DCV) control, the transient interaction mechanism of multi-paralleled doubly fed induction generator (DFIG)-based wind turbines (WTs) is investigated during asymmetrical grid faults. Firstly, considering the coupling characteristics of positive and negative sequence (PNS) components and the interaction characteristics between the rotor side converter (RSC) and grid side converter (GSC), a large-signal nonlinear model of multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs in DC-link voltage control time-scale is obtained. Furthermore, by using the energy function method, the dynamic interaction mechanism of multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs is analyzed. The influence of different parameters on the transient characteristics of DC-link voltage is analyzed by using phase trajectory diagram. The dominant factors affecting the transient stability of the WTs and stability level of DC-link voltage are obtained. In addition, considering the interaction among WTs, the dynamic interaction between RSC and GSC, as well as the requirement of grid codes, a transient stability optimization strategy during asymmetrical grid faults is proposed to improve the transient stability level of the DC-link voltage and the transient stability of multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs. Finally, simulation and experimental results validate the correctness of theoretical analysis and the effectiveness of the proposed strategy.
keywords: {Transient analysis;Power system stability;Doubly fed induction generators;Stability criteria;Voltage control;Circuit stability;Circuit faults;Transient interaction mechanism;DC-link voltage control time-scale;multiple-parallel DFIG-based WTs;asymmetrical grid faults;transient stability optimization strategy},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10681307&isnumber=10805483


H. -J. Wu and Y. -M. Chen, "A Modified Park Transformation Algorithm for Phase-Locked Loop Applications in Unbalanced Three-Phase Systems," 2024 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2024, pp. 3888-3894, doi: 10.1109/ECCE55643.2024.10861681.Abstract: This paper proposes a novel modified Park transformation (MPT) algorithm for phase-locked loop (PLL) applications in unbalanced three-phase systems. Unlike the conventional Park transformation, the proposed MPT algorithm directly incorporates unbalanced characteristics into its transformation matrix, thereby streamlining control strategies without requiring supplementary filtering. The effectiveness of the proposed MPT is verified through rigorous mathematical derivations, comparative simulations, and practical implementations using a digital signal processor (DSP). The results demonstrate that the MPT algorithm significantly improves the stability and accuracy of PLL systems under unbalanced conditions, providing an effective solution for handling phase unbalances in various power systems. Theoretical derivations and practical results, including crucial waveform comparisons, confirm the superior performance of the MPT algorithm and establish a robust framework for future research and applications. keywords: {Technological innovation;Accuracy;Heuristic algorithms;Digital signal processors;Signal processing algorithms;Adaptive algorithms;Power system stability;Stability analysis;Phase locked loops;Power harmonic filters;Park/Clarke transformation;unbalanced three-phase system;phase-locked loop (PLL)},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10861681&isnumber=10860272

X. Liang, H. Zhang, G. Kuang, W. Xie, Z. Liu and Q. Guo, "A New Three+Phase Unbalanced Optimal Control Strategy of Distribution Network Based on Function Reuse of Micro-Source Grid-Connected Converter," 2024 21st International Conference on Harmonics and Quality of Power (ICHQP), Chengdu, China, 2024, pp. 13-18, doi: 10.1109/ICHQP61174.2024.10768703.Abstract: Considering the quality of the output voltage, the distributed power supply needs to have a certain power quality control ability when the unbalanced fault occurs. In response to this requirement, this paper proposes a parallel system. An inverter is placed at the common coupling point of the main circuit and the power grid as an external device for fault ride-through when a serious fault drop. During normal operation, the parallel inverter does not operate, and the main circuit inverter outputs active power. Under asymmetric fault conditions, the parallel inverter injects reactive power to the common coupling point to limit AC current and grid voltage support. Firstly, the power model of the inverter under asymmetric conditions is analyzed in the first part. Then, the power quality management and capacity optimization strategy of the parallel system are described. Finally, the waveform results show the correctness and superiority of the capacity optimization strategy. keywords: {Couplings;Reactive power;Power quality;Power system stability;Power system harmonics;Inverters;Power grids;Circuit faults;Voltage control;Optimization;Parallel system;Unbalanced fault crossing;Capacity optimization;Voltage drop;Distributed power supply},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10768703&isnumber=10768685

H. He et al., "Coordinated Stability Control of Photovoltaic Plants Using Sliding Mode Algorithm," 2024 4th International Conference on Energy Engineering and Power Systems (EEPS), Hangzhou, China, 2024, pp. 330-334, doi: 10.1109/EEPS63402.2024.10804329.Abstract: The output of photovoltaic power stations is affected by weather and environment, and is intermittent and volatile. When connected to the grid on a large scale, its own dynamic performance will affect the power grid and bring challenges to the stable operation of the power grid. In this regard, this paper proposes a coordinated control strategy based on the sliding mode algorithm and studies the dynamic performance of the photovoltaic power station itself. First, a transient model of the photovoltaic power station is established. Based on this model, a coordinated control strategy for the photovoltaic power station based on the sliding mode algorithm is designed, and simulation comparison and analysis are carried out in combination with the MATLAB/Simulink platform. The experimental results show that the coordinated control of photovoltaic power stations based on the sliding mode algorithm can better stabilize the DC bus voltage than the traditional algorithm, and has higher robustness and lower oscillation. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Heuristic algorithms;Power system dynamics;Power system stability;Power grids;Mathematical models;Stability analysis;Voltage control;Transient analysis;Oscillators;photovoltaic power plant;sliding mode control;transient model},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10804329&isnumber=10804281

V. R. Motakatla, H. Padullaparti and I. Mendoza, "Adaptive Negative Sequence Virtual Impedance-based Voltage Unbalance Compensation in Microgrids," 2024 IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting (PESGM), Seattle, WA, USA, 2024, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/PESGM51994.2024.10688661.Abstract: This paper addresses the challenges in compensating for unbalanced voltages in microgrids (MGs) dominated by inverter-based resources (IBRs). In the grid-connected mode of IBR, the grid can supply a negative sequence current to compensate for unbalanced voltages. In the absence of grid support, unbalanced loads and feeder impedances inherent to practical MGs complicate the design of voltage compensation strategies because of dependency on the inverter control strategy and the effective impedance between the inverter and point of common coupling (PCC). To address this issue, we propose an adaptive negative sequence virtual impedance (A-NQVI) scheme for the MGs dominated by high penetration of IBRs. The proposed approach is an easy add-on to the conventional voltage and current control with positive sequence impedance, enabling the injection of generated power into the grid and the compensation of unbalanced voltages at the PCC. The proposed scheme uses local measurements to extract sequence components by making use of a second-order generalized integrator (SOGI) and synchronous reference frame and is based on proportional-integral (PI) controllers. The performance of the proposed control scheme is validated on a modified IEEE 13-bus system in addition to a simple system with two distributed generators. The application of distributed control to inverters is also tested. keywords: {Current control;Couplings;PI control;Current measurement;Decentralized control;Microgrids;Generators;Impedance;Voltage control;Inverter-based resource;Adaptive;microgrid;park transformation;second-order generalized integrator (SOGI);virtual impedance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10688661&isnumber=10688379

R. Zhang et al., "Protection and Power Smoothing of a DFIG/DC Microgrid Hybrid Power System With SMES-Based Unified Power Quality Conditioner," in IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity, vol. 34, no. 8, pp. 1-5, Nov. 2024, Art no. 5401005, doi: 10.1109/TASC.2024.3425322.
Abstract: This paper proposes a unified power quality conditioner (UPQC) based on superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES) for protection and power smoothing in DFIG/DC microgrid hybrid power system. The DC side of the UPQC is connected in parallel with the DC bus of the DC microgrid and maintains the stability of the DC bus voltage, while on the AC side, it is connected through series transformers to the DFIG terminal to act as a dynamic voltage restorer. For a case verification, a 0.8H/718A step-shaped superconducting coil (SC) is designed by finite element simulation using H-formulation to improve the critical current and economy of SMES. Finally, a dual control for regulating positive and negative sequence components of voltage signals is used in DFIG/DC microgrid hybrid power system. The simulation results show that it can effectively smooth the power of the hybrid power generation system, the key parameters of DFIG and DC microgrid can be well suppressed under fault conditions.
keywords: {Microgrids;Hybrid power systems;Doubly fed induction generators;Voltage control;Power generation;Protection;Mathematical models;DC microgrid;DFIG;HTS;SMES;UPQC},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10591371&isnumber=10525238


B. Long, C. Hu, Z. Chen, J. Hu and J. Rodríguez, "Transient Stability Analysis and Virtual Power Compensation of a Virtual Synchronous Generator Under Low-Voltage Fault," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 10, pp. 12803-12814, Oct. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3423445.
Abstract: Virtual synchronous generators (VSGs) demonstrate similar damping and inertia characteristics to traditional synchronous generators, thereby enhancing their ability to support grid voltage and frequency. However, VSGs face challenges related to overcurrent and power angle instability during low-voltage fault conditions. To enhance the low-voltage fault ride-through capability of VSGs, this article introduces a virtual power compensation (VPC) strategy combined with an enhanced current limiting method. First, the transient stability of VSGs with current limiting is analyzed to reveal its instability mechanism. Second, the operational mechanism of the proposed VPC strategy in enhancing transient stability is examined. By means of phase portraits, the effect of transient stability improvement by the VPC is described. Additionally, to facilitate the selection of control parameters, a detailed quantitative analysis has been conducted. Finally, hardware-in-the-loop experiments validate the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Limiting;Power system stability;Transient analysis;Synchronous generators;Stability criteria;Low voltage;Grid forming;Low-voltage faults;transient stability;virtual power compensation (VPC);virtual synchronous generator (VSGs)},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10586795&isnumber=10659244


K. Zhou et al., "A Power Ripple Suppression Method for Grid-Forming Converter under Imbalanced Grids," 2024 IEEE 10th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (IPEMC2024-ECCE Asia), Chengdu, China, 2024, pp. 2643-2647, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC-ECCEAsia60879.2024.10567994.Abstract: Grid-forming converter has been intensively discussed for the capability of active frequency and voltage magnitude regulation. However, due to the absence of closed-loop direct grid current tracking, it suffers from negative sequence grid voltage disturbances, causing significant double-frequency power oscillations. In this paper, a simple power ripple suppression method is proposed for voltage-controlled grid-forming converters, without using any sequence decomposition or complex signal processing. The proposed system consists of a double-frequency active power pulsation mitigation loop to produce an adjustment gain that couples with the instantaneous converter voltage signal, the fundamental component of this adjustment term is extracted and added to the reference voltage from traditional droop control loop. With only slight modifications, the active power pulsation can be effectively suppressed in various conditions. Extensive experimental results have obtained to validate the correctness of the proposed approach. keywords: {Asia;Signal processing;Frequency conversion;Control systems;Regulation;Power electronics;Voltage control;Grid-forming converter;imbalanced Grids;power ripple suppression},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10567994&isnumber=10567050

H. Ding et al., "Passivity-Based Nonsingular Terminal Sliding-Mode Control for LC-Filtered Current Source Converter," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 8, pp. 9367-9381, Aug. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3394949.
Abstract: It is a big challenge for current source converter (CSC) to ensure the desired tracking performance, robustness, and immunity simultaneously in the presence of resonance caused by the grid-side LC filter and slowly time-varying filter parameters or load disturbances. Aiming at this problem, combining the advantages of passivity-based control (PBC) and nonsingular terminal sliding mode control (NTSMC), a hybrid PBC-NTSMC method is proposed. Based on virtual damping injection and energy dissipation theory, the PBC is first designed for the inner loop followed by the construction of the Euler–Lagrange model. In this way, the resonance suppression is realized and the CSC system is proved to be passive. Furthermore, the NTSMC is combined with PBC to improve the dynamic response, reduce the chattering problem of traditional sliding mode control, and enhance the robustness of the system while maintaining passivity. In addition, the power references are modified to enable system to flexibly configure the control target depending on actual application requirements under nonideal grid. To further enhance the immunity, an ultralocal model predictive controller based on extended state observer disturbance estimation is designed for the outer loop. Finally, the simulation and experimental results verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Robustness;Damping;Predictive models;Resistors;Power system stability;Power harmonic filters;Perturbation methods;Current source converter (CSC);LC resonance;nonsingular terminal sliding mode control (NTSMC);passivity-based control (PBC);power reference},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10510503&isnumber=10566505


D. Wu et al., "Grid Integration of Offshore Wind Power: Standards, Control, Power Quality and Transmission," in IEEE Open Journal of Power Electronics, vol. 5, pp. 583-604, 2024, doi: 10.1109/OJPEL.2024.3390417.
Abstract: Offshore wind is expected to be a major player in the global efforts toward decarbonization, leading to exceptional changes in modern power systems. Understanding the impacts and capabilities of the relatively new and uniquely positioned assets in grids with high integration levels of inverter-based resources, however, is lacking, raising concerns about grid reliability, stability, power quality, and resilience, with the absence of updated grid codes to guide the massive deployment of offshore wind. To help fill the gap, this paper presents an overview of the state-of-the-art technologies of offshore wind power grid integration. First, the paper investigates the most current grid requirements for wind power plant integration, based on a harmonized European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO-E) framework and notable international standards, and it illuminates future directions. The paper discusses the wind turbine and wind power plant control strategies, and new control approaches, such as grid-forming control, are presented in detail. The paper reviews recent research on the ancillary services that offshore wind power plants can potentially provide, which, when harmonized, will not only comply with regulations but also improve the value of the asset. The paper explores topics of wind power plant harmonics, reviewing the latest standards in detail and outlining mitigation methods. The paper also presents stability analysis methods for wind power plants, with discussions centered on validity and computational efficiency. Finally, the paper discusses wind power plant transmission solutions, with a focus on high-voltage direct-current topologies and controls.
keywords: {Wind power generation;Codes;Europe;Standards;Power system stability;Frequency control;Industries;Offshore wind power;inverter-based resources;grid-forming inverter;inverter ancillary service;power quality;stability analysis},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10504957&isnumber=10366862


F. Wen, P. Acuna, J. Yang, Z. Yuan and A. M. Y. M. Ghias, "Low-Voltage Ride-Through Scheme for Distributed Generation Inverters Using a Modified Current Reference Strategy," 2024 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Bristol, United Kingdom, 2024, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/ICIT58233.2024.10540912.Abstract: The growing number of distributed generations (DGs) has shifted the power supply to be more flexible and reliable. Meanwhile, for the stability of the power grid, the increasing integration demands a robust fault ride-through (FRT) ability when the unbalanced sag occurs in the grid operation, namely low-voltage ride-through (LVRT). During an unbalanced sag, the oscillation in the active and reactive power, the distorted and unbalanced current are the main significant detriments. Several current reference strategies have been developed to mitigate these adverse effects. However, the standard approach prioritizes compensation for one objective entirely, typically the sag, at the expense of leaving another objective unaddressed i.e. constant powers, balanced current, or harmonic distortion. To accomplish the characteristics of different current reference strategies, this paper modifies the current reference to achieve two control variables. Besides, to accurately boost the voltage at the point of common coupling, the reactive power compensation reference is proposed according to the power transfer equation. A model predictive control (MPC) controller is designed to deliver a given power by making the current follow the reference. The simulation results show that the proposed LVRT scheme achieves at the PCC voltage a more accurate and larger boost and the modified current strategy can decouple the traditional strategies. keywords: {Reactive power;Low voltage;Upper bound;Power system stability;Mathematical models;Stability analysis;Distributed power generation;Distributed generations (DGs);low voltage ride-through (LVRT);model predictive control (MPC);voltage sag;inverter;LC filter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10540912&isnumber=10540608

Y. Feng, W. Huang, Z. Jin, Y. Li, Z. J. Shen and Z. Shuai, "Voltage Support Strategy for Improving Power Transfer Capability of Grid-Connected Converter Under Unbalanced Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 7, pp. 7863-7875, July 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3380626.
Abstract: Grid-connected converter should transmit power from distributed generation to the grid as much as possible, even under unbalanced conditions. However, under the necessary constraints of the point of common coupling (PCC) voltage support and current limitation, it is difficult for the converter to transmit more power to the grid. To fill this gap, this article provides a mechanism analysis of the power transfer considering the zero-sequence voltage influence. Moreover, a new control strategy is proposed to improve the power transfer capability under unbalanced conditions. It is found that the phase difference between the PCC voltage and the grid voltage in the positive- and negative-sequence network is a key factor affecting power transfer capability, while playing an important role in the accurate calculation of the PCC voltage amplitude. Based on the key factor, we propose a new control strategy to improve the power transfer capability of the grid-connected converter. The proposed strategy can flexibly control the phase difference and transfer more power to the grid under the premise of current limiting and voltage support. Finally, the proposed voltage support strategy is validated with an experimental study.
keywords: {Voltage control;Impedance;Distributed power generation;Low voltage;Power system stability;Power electronics;Codes;Grid-connected converter;power transfer;unbalanced conditions;voltage support},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10478201&isnumber=10534151


K. Liao, D. Zhou, Z. Shen and J. Zou, "A Dual-DC-Port Rectifier With Active Power Ripple Suppression Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 7481-7491, June 2024, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2024.3377352.
Abstract: The active power decoupling technique is an attractive solution to deal with dual-frequency power ripples in three-phase grid-connected rectifiers under unbalanced grid conditions. However, this technique typically employs extra components and introduces increased power losses. In view of this, this article proposed a dual-dc-port rectifier with active power ripple suppression, which enables direct power delivery among the ac grid and dc ports without additional components and intermediate power conversion. Besides, an equivalent two-level framework is put forward to decouple the controller design for this high-integrated topology. With the proposed equivalent two-level model, the controller design for the dual-dc-port rectifier can be simplified, where the grid current control is achieved by regulating the active vector, and power ripple suppression is realized by allocating the zero vector. Consequently, the proposed active power ripple suppression scheme simultaneously achieves sinusoidal grid currents on the ac side and constant dc output voltage on the dc side because the active power ripples on the ac side are all distributed into the extended power decoupling port on the dc side. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of the employed topology and the designed control scheme.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Avalanche photodiodes;Capacitors;Voltage control;Vectors;Topology;Current control;Dual-dc-port rectifier;high power density;power decoupling;power quality;second-order power ripples;unbalanced grid conditions},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10472688&isnumber=10505873


D. M. Pérez, L. H. Pardo, F. Aguilera and G. G. Oggier, "Analysis of a Mode Transition Strategy Between Grid-Connected and Islanded Operation of an Electrical Microgrid," 2024 Argentine Conference on Electronics (CAE), Bahía Blanca, Argentina, 2024, pp. 64-69, doi: 10.1109/CAE59785.2024.10487160.Abstract: This paper analyzes the performance of a control strategy for a hybrid electrical microgrid during the mode transition based on a master-slave configuration. The converters are controlled as current sources in grid-connected mode, and the master converter switches its control to a voltage source in islanded mode. The results obtained from simulations in MATLAB/Simulink demonstrate a smooth transition between the modes of operation, complying with international power quality standards. The effectiveness of the local fault detection technique is confirmed, ensuring a fast response time in detecting changes in the state of the power grid. Additionally, the behavior of the microgrid's voltage Vrms during the master converter control changes is analyzed, giving results within the limits established by Standard lEC 62040–3. keywords: {Fault detection;Simulation;Power quality;Microgrids;Control systems;Main-secondary;Time factors;microgrid;islanding;grid fault detection;synchronization;second order generalised integrator},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10487160&isnumber=10487112

Z. A. Alexakis and A. T. Alexandridis, "A Current-Limiting PI Control Scheme for Voltage Source Converters," 2024 IEEE 8th Energy Conference (ENERGYCON), Doha, Qatar, 2024, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/ENERGYCON58629.2024.10488773.Abstract: In modern power systems, the good and safe operation of voltage source converters (VSCs) is of principal importance. The aim is twofold: to regulate the active and reactive power injected to the grid and simultaneously to protect the VSC from overcurrent situations usually occurred after some abnormal grid conditions. A novel solution to this open problem is provided in this paper. Specifically, we present a novel current-limiting control scheme that enables to accurately limit the RMS current value of the VSC, even under abrupt faults. The controllers are implemented in the well-known d-q synchronously rotating reference frame for a VSC that is connected to a stiff bus through an LC filter. The synchronization with the grid-bus is carried out by a robust synchronization unit (RSU), whereas a modified PQ controller that efficiently accommodates the nature of the RSU and the inner-loop control scheme is implemented. The proposed design is analyzed through large signal analysis; it is established that the system is locally-input to state stable (I-ISS). Also, asymptotic stability and convergence to the equilibrium, is proven, in the domain of attraction as it is determined by the limiting current controller operation. Finally, the studied system is tested under various simulation scenarios where in conventional situations large current values are normally expected. In our case, the current-limiting property is fully verified and a smooth response to equilibrium is observed. keywords: {Asymptotic stability;Inductance;Limiting;Power system stability;Stability analysis;Power conversion;Synchronization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10488773&isnumber=10488737

S. Pola, M. A. Azzouz and M. Mirhassani, "Synchronverters With Fault Ride-Through Capabilities for Reliable Microgrid Protection During Balanced and Unbalanced Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 1663-1676, July 2024, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2024.3365672.
Abstract: Synchronverters are inverters that provide damping and inertia, similar to synchronous generators. Like traditional inverters, synchronverters are adaptable to the microgrid's operation modes. However, synchronverters may generate oscillatory active and reactive powers during faults and produce phase currents with excessive magnitudes. Therefore, this paper develops two fault ride-through (FRT) strategies for synchronverters: average power control and enhanced power control. Both strategies aim to reduce power oscillations, limit current generation, and ensure compliance with grid codes during faults, regardless of the fault conditions and the grid's operation mode. Additionally, synchronverters with the proposed FRT strategies are incorporated into an optimal protection coordination (OPC) program for microgrid protection. The OPC program obtains the settings of time-current-voltage overcurrent relays (TIV-OCRs) and demonstrates the effect of the proposed FRT strategies on microgrid protection. The obtained settings are suitable for both the microgrid's grid-connected and islanded modes during balanced and unbalanced faults. Evaluation results demonstrate the capability of the proposed strategies to reduce power oscillations, limit current generation, and comply with grid codes. Furthermore, the OPC results reveal the most appropriate strategy to minimize TIV-OCRs' operating times in a coordinated manner, regardless of the fault type and microgrid operating mode.
keywords: {Microgrids;Low-pass filters;Passive filters;Oscillators;Reactive power;Power harmonic filters;Filtering theory;Synchronverter;instantaneous power theory;fault ride-through;optimal protection coordination;microgrids;modified instantaneous power theory;overcurrent relays},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10433740&isnumber=10566086


Z. Zou, J. Tang, G. Buticchi and M. Liserre, "Stabilization of Distribution Grids With High Penetration of Renewables: The Path From Decentralized Control to a Centralized One," in IEEE Industrial Electronics Magazine, vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 17-31, March 2024, doi: 10.1109/MIE.2023.3272771.
Abstract: The integration of renewable energies and electric vehicle (EV) charging stations is challenging the electric grid in terms of resonances caused by complex interaction mechanisms involving power convertor control and electromagnetic transients of the grid. Very often, these problems have been tackled with decentralized control approaches, which have difficulties in taking all the interdependencies into consideration. This article proposes a different perspective: a centralized control approach through a smart transformer (ST).
keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Power system stability;Harmonic analysis;Oscillators;Power harmonic filters;Impedance;Damping;Electric vehicle charging;Power distribution;Electromagnetic transients;Converters;Power control},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10132307&isnumber=10477170


Q. Zhang, W. Jiang, J. Wang, K. Chen, M. Ma and Q. Chen, "A Novel Modulation Method to Suppress the Current Zero-Crossing Distortion for Vienna Rectifier With Different Control Methods Under Unbalanced Grid," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 71, no. 2, pp. 1135-1146, Feb. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2023.3257365.
Abstract: Vienna rectifier is a boost-type rectifier with unidirectional energy flow, which is widely used in many applications. Under unbalanced grid, there will be even harmonics in dc-link voltage and odd harmonics in input current if the traditional control methods are used. Therefore, two control methods for Vienna rectifier under unbalanced grid are introduced, which are balanced positive-sequence current control and instantaneous active power control. The current zero-crossing distortion (CZCD) is an inherent issue for Vienna rectifier due to its special circuit topology. The displacement angle between the input current and the voltage is revealed, which is the essence of CZCD. The issue of CZCD is more complex under unbalanced grid than that under balanced grid, and CZCD cannot be addressed well under existing suppression method. A novel method that can minimize CZCD under unbalanced grid is also proposed. The proposed method works well under both balanced and unbalanced grid. Finally, an experimental platform is built, and the feasibility and superiority of the proposed method are verified by comprehensive experiments.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Modulation;Harmonic analysis;Voltage control;Fluctuations;Distortion;Reactive power;Current zero-crossing distortion (CZCD);unbalanced grid;Vienna rectifier},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10077539&isnumber=10223597


D. Ma, K. Wang and J. Wang, "Submodule Voltage Ripple Reduction for Back-to-back Modular Multilevel Converters Under Unbalanced Grid Conditions," 2023 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Nashville, TN, USA, 2023, pp. 2505-2511, doi: 10.1109/ECCE53617.2023.10362317.Abstract: The Back-to-back Modular Multilevel Converter (BTB-MMC) consists of two Modular Multilevel Converters (MMC) with directly connected dc-link, and ac-sides tied to two grids to transfer active power. This paper focuses on the ride-through control of BTB-MMC when one grid experiences unbalanced conditions, which causes a zero-sequence double-line frequency power ripple within the three phase legs of the single-side MMC connected to the unbalanced grid voltage. To reduce the additional phase leg energy ripple and average submodule (SM) voltage ripple, this paper first summarizes the system control method of the BTB-MMC system, and then proposes a high-frequency dc-link voltage ripple and zero-sequence circulating current injection method to distribute the SM voltage ripple between both-side MMCs, decreasing the required SM capacitance and improving the power density of the BTB-MMC. The injection method is validated through a case study with simulation results. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Multilevel converters;Power system measurements;Simulation;Energy conversion;Power system stability;High frequency;back-to-back;modular multilevel converter (MMC);submodule (SM) voltage ripple;energy ripple;ripple reduction;circulating current;injection;unbalanced grid voltage},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10362317&isnumber=10361943

P. Meloni and A. Serpi, "Power Harmonic Component Suppression in Case of Un-Ideal Electro-Motive Forces," 2023 IEEE Vehicle Power and Propulsion Conference (VPPC), Milan, Italy, 2023, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/VPPC60535.2023.10403186.Abstract: A control system to suppress power Harmonic Components (HCs) when supplying an electric grid or motor characterized by un-ideal three-phase electro-motive forces (emfs) is presented in this paper. The proposed method can be applied in case of any three-phase emfs consisting of a certain number of HCs, each of which made up of positive-, negative-, and/or zero-sequence components. Based on emf features, different three-phase reference currents can be defined in accordance with the available degrees of freedom and power HC suppression targets. These reference currents are tracked by means of a deadbeat predictive current control algorithm, which is developed in the stationary reference frame to account for a possible wide and dense current harmonic spectrum. The effectiveness of the proposed solution is verified though a simulation study, whose results confirm the validity of the proposed theoretical approach. keywords: {Current control;Reactive power;Target tracking;Simulation;Power system harmonics;Harmonic analysis;Distortion;Current control;Harmonic analysis;Power conversion harmonics;Predictive control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10403186&isnumber=10403114

Z. Yan, Y. Jia, L. Wang and J. Ma, "A Distributed Static Series Compensator System for Impedance Regulation of Transmission Lines," 2023 3rd International Conference on Energy, Power and Electrical Engineering (EPEE), Wuhan, China, 2023, pp. 1145-1148, doi: 10.1109/EPEE59859.2023.10351995.Abstract: This article proposes a scheme to control the power flow distribution of the system through distributed transmission line impedance dynamic adjustment technology. Firstly, analyze the working principle and characteristics of the equipment, and study the impact of regulating equipment on transmission lines. Afterwards, the single turn transformer iron core is designed through equipment parameters, and the weight of the iron core is minimized as much as possible to reduce the weight of the equipment while meeting the conditions of line mounting. After obtaining the core parameters, design corresponding control strategies to adjust the output impedance of the equipment, and study the coordinated operation of multiple devices to control the system power flow. Finally, the theory was validated through simulation. keywords: {Reactive power;Power transmission lines;Prototypes;Transformer cores;Transformers;Iron;Regulation;control strategy;power-flow distribution;iron core design},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10351995&isnumber=10351782

X. Ma, Y. Chen, S. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Wang and W. Hu, "Knowledge-driven Identification Method for Low Voltage Ride through Strategy of Photovoltaic Inverters," 2023 5th International Conference on Power and Energy Technology (ICPET), Tianjin, China, 2023, pp. 278-283, doi: 10.1109/ICPET59380.2023.10367458.Abstract: The rapid development of renewable energy power generation technology represented by photovoltaic and wind power has changed the fault characteristics of the grid. However, there is a major problem in the calculation of short-circuit current in existing renewable energy: the current analytical research on fault currents of various types of renewable energy power supplies is too dependent on the control strategy and parameters of renewable energy, while the control strategy and parameters are too hard to acquire. Aiming at the above problems, a knowledge-driven identification method for low voltage ride through strategy of photovoltaic inverters is proposed. Firstly, multi-dimensional features reflecting the differences of different control strategies are extracted from the time-varying trajectories and a knowledge-driven control strategy classification feature set is constructed; secondly, a typical control strategy identification model based on the random forest algorithm is established. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method is verified by simulation results. keywords: {Photovoltaic systems;Renewable energy sources;Low voltage;Simulation;Short-circuit currents;Wind power generation;Feature extraction;knowledge-driven;renewable energy;low voltage ride through strategy;classification feature.},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10367458&isnumber=10367198

A. Marin-Hurtado, A. Escobar-Mejía and W. Gil-González, "Auxiliary Droop Frequency and Voltage Control for Grid-Forming Applied to Unbalanced Current Compensation," 2023 IEEE 14th International Symposium on Power Electronics for Distributed Generation Systems (PEDG), Shanghai, China, 2023, pp. 840-845, doi: 10.1109/PEDG56097.2023.10215150.Abstract: The virtual synchronous machine (VSM) has been a potential solution to control the grid-forming converters to integrate renewable energies (RES) into the grid. It is responsible for emulating the kinetic energy and static/dynamic properties of conventional synchronous generators to solve the stability problems due to decrease inertia in the systems with high levels of RES. This has been increasing in the distribution grids where is common the single-phase loads and the current unbalance, which causes stability problems as the intensified frequency oscillations and the frequency deviation in the system. The VSM control is common in converters present in the balance system. However, the VSM control implementation in converters present in the unbalanced system is not a straightforward task due as the unbalances intensify the power oscillations to cause the VSM to have abnormal behavior. Nevertheless, the frequency and voltage droops controls are commonly used in the converters present in the unbalanced system, but they are used as grid-following converters. Therefore, this paper proposes an auxiliary droop frequency and voltage control (AFV) scheme to integrate into a virtual synchronous machine (VSM-AFV) in order to improve a four-wire power system’s stability during an unbalanced system. This approach is based on droop frequency and voltage control, and its law control is obtained from a system’s active power and reactive power flow exchange equation. Changes in the active power of the VSM based on unbalances presented in the distribution grid are considered to show the performance of the VSM-AFV. Results show that the VSM-AFV controller presents lower ROCOF, steady-state errors in output reactive power, and output current of a four-leg three-phase voltage source converter (4-LVSC) when compared to the VSM approach. keywords: {Reactive power;Renewable energy sources;Power system stability;Synchronous generators;Steady-state;Voltage control;Frequency synchronization;Droop frequency;droop voltage;four-leg three-phase voltage source inverter;grid forming;virtual synchronous machine},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10215150&isnumber=10215083

Y. Zhang, S. Zhang and X. Luo, "Propagation Mechanism and Suppression Measures of AC-Side Asymmetric Faults between AC and DC Hybrid Microgrid," 2023 IEEE 3rd International Conference on Electronic Technology, Communication and Information (ICETCI), Changchun, China, 2023, pp. 945-958, doi: 10.1109/ICETCI57876.2023.10176851.Abstract: When a fault occurs on the AC side of the AC/DC hybrid microgrid, the fault disturbance will spread to the DC side. Influenced by the topology and control strategy, the disturbance form will change a lot. Analyzing the fault propagation mechanism and designing suppression measures are of positive significance for strengthening the safety of the hybrid microgrid operation. This paper analyzes the influence of AC side asymmetric fault on DC microgrid, and shows that in addition to negative sequence component causing DC side power and voltage double frequency fluctuation, DC side bipolar power supply mode will also provide a new path for the propagation of fault zero sequence component, resulting in power frequency disturbance of DC bus voltage. These fluctuations affect the output stability of DC side distributed power supply. In order to suppress faults, this paper proposes a control method based on the control strategy of "U-U" type interconnected converter, which is improved by positive sequence components, and superimposed with negative sequence voltage and zero sequence voltage compensation, which is verified in PSCAD/EMTDC. The results show that this method has a certain inhibition effect on fault propagation. keywords: {Voltage measurement;Fluctuations;Voltage fluctuations;Microgrids;Hybrid power systems;Stability analysis;Topology;hybrid microgrid;fault propagation;unbalanced control;zero sequence compensation},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10176851&isnumber=10176364

J. Yin, J. Wang, L. Chen, M. Wang, H. Luo and Y. Yang, "Analysis and Benchmarking of Grid-Forming Control for Power Converters," 2023 11th International Conference on Power Electronics and ECCE Asia (ICPE 2023 - ECCE Asia), Jeju Island, Korea, Republic of, 2023, pp. 2436-2442, doi: 10.23919/ICPE2023-ECCEAsia54778.2023.10213839.Abstract: Traditional electricity grids use large-capacity synchronous generators as power generation devices, which have the characteristics of large volume and high robustness. In recent years, the rapid development of renewable energy in alignment with the national strategy of Carbon Neutrality in China by 2060 has brought new opportunities and challenges to traditional power grids. Power electronics converters are the key to renewable energy integration to gradually replace traditional synchronous generators, leading to reduced inertia and more challenges. While being more flexible, it makes the stability of the grid worse. In view of this, various advanced control strategies have been developed in the literature. The control of grid-connected converters has been broadly divided into two groups, grid-following (GFL) and grid-forming (GFM). In this paper, the characteristics of the GFM control are benchmarked through simulations, mainly the virtual synchronous generator (VSG) control and the virtual oscillator control (VOC). The benchmarking indicates that the VSG control strategies with virtual inertia have less fluctuation in response to various disturbances and the VOC performs better in terms of dynamics. keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Fluctuations;Power system dynamics;Asia;Benchmark testing;Power system stability;Synchronous generators;Grid-following;grid-forming;inertia;renewable energy;stability},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10213839&isnumber=10213452

S. Pola, M. Azzouz, A. S. A. Awad and H. Sindi, "Fault Ride-Through Strategies for Synchronverter-Interfaced Energy Resources Under Asymmetrical Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 2391-2405, Oct. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TSTE.2023.3273555.
Abstract: Synchronverters are inverters controlled to behave like synchronous generators. However, unbalanced faults or voltage dips may stimulate synchronverters to generate excessive currents and cause instantaneous active and reactive power oscillations at twice the grid's fundamental frequency. Therefore, this article proposes three fault ride-through (FRT) strategies to remedy these power oscillations and the unlimited current generation during unbalanced faults. The first strategy is based on an instantaneous active and reactive control that significantly reduces power oscillations. The second strategy relies on an average active and reactive control that ensures the delivery of average active and reactive power and maintains sinusoidal phase currents. Finally, the third FRT strategy employs a comprehensive instantaneous active and reactive control to eliminate power oscillations and maintain sinusoidal currents simultaneously. The proposed FRT strategies are equipped with a power management controller that delivers the required active and reactive power during normal operation and limits the inverter's phase currents during faults. Further, the proposed FRT strategies maintain the intrinsic features of synchronverters and ensure seamless activation of the proposed FRT strategies. Comparative results confirm the efficacy of the proposed strategies to reduce power oscillations, limit current generation, maintain synchronverters’ intrinsic features, and comply with grid codes.
keywords: {Reactive power;Power distribution;Inverters;Power system stability;Voltage fluctuations;Feature extraction;Renewable energy sources;Synchronverters;instantaneous power theory;fault ride-through;unbalanced faults;distributed generators},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10120995&isnumber=10248410


X. Miao, D. Zhao, B. Lin, H. Jiang and J. Chen, "A Differential Protection Scheme Based on Improved DTW Algorithm for Distribution Networks With Highly-Penetrated Distributed Generation," in IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 40399-40411, 2023, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3269298.
Abstract: Differential protection has been introduced into the distribution network to address the ineffectiveness of traditional protection due to the uncertainties of power flow caused by the access of multiple inverter-interfaced distributed generation (IIDG). Designed for lower data synchronization costs, this paper proposes a novel differential protection scheme based on improved dynamic time warping (DTW) distance. The proposed algorithm can effectively alleviate the singularity caused by DTW’s excessive X-axis distortion through relaxation search and derivative estimation and minimize the impact of data synchronization errors and data loss. Based on the proposed algorithm, the protection scheme combined with the feeder terminal unit (FTU) for fast fault isolation is designed, which can make full use of the existing equipment and reduce costs. Moreover, multiple influencing factors considered in this scheme, including transition resistance, penetration rate, and output intermittency of IIDG, variable network topology, underground cables, and hybrid lines. The test results demonstrate that the proposed protection scheme can effectively isolate short-circuit faults in various scenarios.
keywords: {Synchronization;Distribution networks;Resistance;Market research;Fault currents;Costs;Impedance;Distribution network;improved DTW;differential current protection;inverter-interfaced distributed generation;positive sequence current;feeder terminal unit},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10106275&isnumber=10005208


M. R. K. Rachi, M. A. Awal and I. Husain, "Asymmetrical Fault Ride-Through and Power Oscillation Characterization for Grid-Tied Voltage Source Converters," in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol. 59, no. 4, pp. 4550-4561, July-Aug. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2023.3268280.
Abstract: As the number of converter-interfaced distributed energy resources connected to the power system continues to increase rapidly, recent grid codes require these grid-tied converters to maintain grid connection during faults to ensure power supply security and reliability. In this work, we analyze the oscillation in the injected real and reactive power that a grid-tied voltage source converter (VSC) introduces as it attempts to contribute to the power quality and improve the voltage at the point of common coupling (PCC) during an asymmetrical fault. We propose a new double sequence current reference generation method that can be utilized to derive a closed-form quantification of the peak value of both the real and reactive power oscillation during asymmetrical fault ride-through (AFRT) analytically. The effect of the resulting bus voltage oscillation and ripple current requirement at twice the grid frequency, corresponding to the real power oscillation, on the input DC bus capacitor and upstream converter is analyzed for facilitating system component sizing. Furthermore, the proposed current reference generation formulation helps control the negative-sequence current injection during fault to assist with fault identification. The theoretical analysis is validated through simulation in PLECS for both asymmetrical and symmetrical fault scenarios. Experimental results for a three-phase, grid-tied VSC operating under both asymmetrical and symmetrical faults are provided to evaluate the performance of the proposed current reference generation method and validate the analysis presented
keywords: {Oscillators;Power system stability;Voltage control;Reactive power;Inverters;Fault diagnosis;Current limiters;Distributed energy resources;fault ride-through;grid-tied voltage source converter;power oscillation;symmetrical and asymmetrical fault},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10105492&isnumber=10185984


B. Sharma et al., "Power Sharing in Three-Level NPC Inverter Based Three-Phase Four-Wire Islanding Microgrids With Unbalanced Loads," in IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 20725-20740, 2023, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3250219.
Abstract: The droop-based control schemes are widely used for power-sharing and control of the isolated microgrids. The conventional droop control scheme with inner current and voltage controllers can work effectively under ideal voltage. However, the existence of unbalance tends its performance to worsen. This paper aims to propose an enhanced droop control method to improve the power-sharing, and maintain the distributed generators’ (DGs) terminal voltages and the system frequency under the balanced as well as unbalanced loads. The enhancements of the proposed control scheme include the droop controller, inner current and voltage controller, and virtual impedance loop. The proposed virtual impedance deals with the accurate sharing of powers in the case of unequal line impedance and the control of zero sequence current. Moreover, to enable the proposed control to compensate for the unbalance, three-level neutral point clamped (NPC) inverters are used to form a three-phase four-wire microgrid. With this control scheme, the voltage unbalance factors (VUFs) of the DGs’ terminal voltages are reduced from 4% to less than 1%, negative sequence reactive powers, which are also an indication of unbalance, have been reduced significantly, and the system frequency is maintained within the standard permissible limit of 2.5%. Furthermore, a local load controller is also proposed to control the reactive loading of the DGs when they have local loads supplied from their terminals. The investigations have been carried out under simulation as well as lab-based environments to validate the efficacy of the proposed control method.
keywords: {Microgrids;Impedance;Inverters;Voltage control;Capacitors;Wires;Stress;Load modeling;Droop control;local load controller;power-sharing;three-phase four-wire power systems;unbalanced loads;virtual impedance},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10056141&isnumber=10005208


X. Li, Z. Wang, L. Zhu, L. Guo and C. Wang, "Analytical Dual-Sequence Current Injections Feasible Region of Weak-Grid Connected VSC Under Asymmetric Grid Faults," in IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 38, no. 6, pp. 5546-5559, Nov. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TPWRS.2022.3226560.
Abstract: For phase-locked-loop synchronization (PLL-Syn) based Weak-Grid connected Voltage Source Converter (WG-VSC) system under asymmetric grid faults, published works mainly focus on existing of equilibrium point and small signal stability, which cannot address PLL-Syn transient stability problems. For the first time, we have proposed an analytical solution to the question of “Whether the WG-VSC system can reach to a new available equilibrium point (EP) of fault-on state from original EP of pre-fault state without loss of PLL-Syn transient stability under asymmetric faults?”. Dual-sequence current injections feasible region (CIFR) of WG-VSCs in positive and negative sequence current injection space is defined firstly. Then, by considering PLL-Syn transient stability constraint, Maximum available current constraint, and PCC Voltage constraint, an analytical expression of CIFR has been obtained. Finally, experiments results based on detailed switching model in RT-BOX hardware-in-loop platform have been provided to verify the CIFR constructed in this paper. It should be noted that the work of this paper can not only address PLL-Syn transient stability problems of WG-VSC system under asymmetric faults, but also can pave the way for asymmetric fault ride-through control considering transient stability constraints.
keywords: {Power system stability;Transient analysis;Stability criteria;Phase locked loops;Numerical stability;Power system dynamics;Voltage-source converters;WG-VSC;PLL-Syn transient stability;asymme tric grid faults;current injections feasible region},
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9969926&isnumber=10288290


